Title: Incentive scheme for promotion of RuPay Debit cards and low-value BHIM-UPI transactions (P2M)

Content: The Government is taking various initiatives to promote digital payments. Over past few years, digital payment transactions have witnessed tremendous growth across the country with the number of transactions growing from 2,071 crore in FY 2017-18 to 5,554 crore in FY 2020-21. In the present Covid pandemic, digital payments enable safety for citizens through contact-less modes of payments as well as provide impetus to the economy. 2. Although there has been unprecedented growth in digital payments over the past few years, there is potential for further growth as cash continues on a significant scale. It is, therefore, important to boost the adoption of digital payments, targeting untapped markets/ segments/ sectors. 3. In compliance with the Budget announcement (FY 2021-22) and to give further boost to digital transactions in the country, it has been decided by the Government to incentivise the acquiring Banks by way of paying percentage of value of RuPay Debit cards transactions (P2M) and low-value BHIMUPI transactions (upto ₹ 2,000) (P2M), for a period of one year w.e.f. April 01, 2021.

Question: What has been the growth of online transactions in India since financial year 2017-18?
Answer: Over past few years, digital payment transactions have witnessed tremendous growth across the country with the number of transactions growing from 2,071 crore in FY 2017-18 to 5,554 crore in FY 2020-21

Question: Why is it important to adopt the method of digital payments?
Answer: Although there has been unprecedented growth in digital payments over the past few years, there is potential for further growth as cash continues on a significant scale. It is, therefore, important to boost the adoption of digital payments, targeting untapped markets/ segments/ sectors.



Title: Incentive scheme for promotion of RuPay Debit cards and low-value BHIM-UPI transactions (P2M)

Content: The incentive to the acquiring banks will be provided by the Government at the following rates: i. To reduce the financial burden on the Government, lower incentive rate has been proposed on transactions done at merchants under Industry Programmes, as mentioned above. ii. MeitY, in consultation with NPCI, may review from time to time the utilization of funds under the scheme and accordingly include/ exclude the Industry Programmes. iii. The duration of the proposed scheme is one year, w.e.f. April 01, 2021. iv. The estimated financial outlay of the scheme is ₹ 1,300 crore. v. The allocation of ₹ 1,300 crore will be fungible between RuPay Debit cards and BHIM-UPI. vi. The Banks are required to show at least 10% YOY growth rate in number of RuPay Debit card transactions (overall, not restricted to P2M) and 50% YOY growth rate in number of BHIMUPI transactions (overall, not restricted to P2M) at the end of last quarter of the scheme. vii. Reimbursement of the claims will be done on quarterly basis. On successful submission of the claims, 95% of the claimed amount will be reimbursed to the Banks after each quarter. The remaining 5% of the claimed amount of each quarter will be released at the end of last quarter of the scheme. viii. MeitY will review the growth of RuPay Debit card (volume) and BHIM-UPI (volume) transactions of each bank at the end of last quarter. The pending amount of the previous three quarters (5% per quarter) would be released with the claimed amount of the last quarter, only if the Bank meets the specified growth rate, as mentioned in Para vi. above, else the retained amount, i.e., 5% per quarter of the previous three quarters and 5% of the claimed amount of the last quarter will not be released to the Bank. ix. The incentive will be shared by the acquiring banks with other stakeholders. The distribution of the incentive amongst the stakeholders will be decided by NPCI in consultation with the Banks. x. The Scheme is applicable to the Banks having operations in India and transactions done in India. xi. The operational guideline for implementation of the scheme will be issued to the acquiring banks by MeitY in consultation with NPCI. 

Question: What is the growth a bank needs to show under this scheme?
Answer: The Banks are required to show at least 10% YOY growth rate in number of RuPay Debit card transactions (overall, not restricted to P2M) and 50% YOY growth rate in number of BHIMUPI transactions (overall, not restricted to P2M) at the end of last quarter of the scheme. 

Question: What is the financial outlay of this scheme?
Answer: The estimated financial outlay of the scheme is ₹ 1,300 crore. 

Question: Who is this scheme applicable to?
Answer: The Scheme is applicable to the Banks having operations in India and transactions done in India.

Question: How is the reimbursement of claims done under this scheme?
Answer: Reimbursement of the claims will be done on quarterly basis. On successful submission of the claims, 95% of the claimed amount will be reimbursed to the Banks after each quarter. The remaining 5% of the claimed amount of each quarter will be released at the end of last quarter of the scheme. 



Title: Rules for regulating method of recruiting of the post of Director  (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology

Content: the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the method of recruitment to the post of Director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, namely:- 1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Director (Building) Recruitment Rules, 2020. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 2. Number of post, classification and level in pay matrix.—The number of post, its classification and level in pay matrix attached thereto shall be as specified in columns (2) to (4) of Schedule annexed to these rules. 3. Method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications, etc.—The method of recruitment to the said posts, agelimit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall be as specified in columns (5) to (13) of the aforesaid Schedule. 4. Disqualification.—No person, - (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment to any of the said posts: Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under personal law applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 5. Power to relax.—Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons. 6. Saving.—Nothing in these rules shall affect reservation, relaxation of age-limit and other concessions required to be provided for persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Classes, the Ex-servicemen and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.

Question: What are the rules  to elect the director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology?
Answer: the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the method of recruitment to the post of Director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, namely:- 1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Director (Building) Recruitment Rules, 2020. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 2. Number of post, classification and level in pay matrix.—The number of post, its classification and level in pay matrix attached thereto shall be as specified in columns (2) to (4) of Schedule annexed to these rules. 3. Method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications, etc.—The method of recruitment to the said posts, agelimit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall be as specified in columns (5) to (13) of the aforesaid Schedule. 4. Disqualification.—No person, - (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment to any of the said posts: Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under personal law applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 5. Power to relax.—Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons. 6. Saving.—Nothing in these rules shall affect reservation, relaxation of age-limit and other concessions required to be provided for persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Classes, the Ex-servicemen and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.  

Question: Who sets the rules to elect the director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology?
Answer: the President

Question: Who is not eligible to run for the post of Director (Building)?
Answer: No person, - (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment to any of the said posts: Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under personal law applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 

Question: What is power to relax?
Answer: Power to relax.—Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons. 

Question: To whom do the rules set by the president not apply with respect to the recruitment of the post of Director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology?
Answer: Nothing in these rules shall affect reservation, relaxation of age-limit and other concessions required to be provided for persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Classes, the Ex-servicemen and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard. 

Question: When did the rules for regulating method of recruiting of the post of Director (Building) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology come to effect?
Answer: They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.



Title: Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination rules 

Content: In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution and in supersession of the Ministry of Information Technology. Private Secretary Departmental Competitive Examination Rules, 2000, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for promotion to the post of Private Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, namely: 1. Short title and commencement. (1) These rules may be called the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmental Competitive Examination Rules, 2018. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. Definition. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, - (a) "appointing authority" means the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology; (b) "available vacancy" means a vacancy in the post of Private Secretary's grade in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology which is required to be filled up on the basis of the results of the examination; (c) "crucial date" means the first day of January of the year of the vacancies for which such examination is held;(d) "examination" means the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for promotion to the post of Private Secretary held in the manner specified in the Schedule, (e) "recruitment year" means the period commencing from the 1st day of January and ending on the 31st day of December of the same year; (0)"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to these rules;(g) "Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the same meanings respectively as assigned to them in clauses (24) and (25) of article 366 of the Constitution. 

Question: Who makes the rules regulating examination for the post of Private Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology?
Answer: the President 

Question: What is the appointing authority?
Answer: "appointing authority" means the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology

Question: What is available vacancy?
Answer: available vacancy" means a vacancy in the post of Private Secretary's grade in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology which is required to be filled up on the basis of the results of the examination

Question: What/When is the crucial date?
Answer: "crucial date" means the first day of January of the year of the vacancies for which such examination is held

Question: What examination is required for promotion to the post of Private Secretary?
Answer: the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for promotion to the post of Private Secretary held in the manner specified in the Schedule

Question: What is the period of recruitment?
Answer: the period commencing from the 1st day of January and ending on the 31st day of December of the same year

Question: What is recruitment year?
Answer: "recruitment year" means the period commencing from the 1st day of January and ending on the 31st day of December of the same year

Question: What is the difference between Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes?
Answer: "Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the same meanings respectively as assigned to them in clauses (24) and (25) of article 366 of the Constitution.



Title: Eligibility for Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination

Content: Conditions of eligibility.-(1) Personal Assistant in level-7 in the pay matrix (Rs. 44900-142400) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology who have rendered not less than five years approved service which should include at least four years regular and contiminus service in that level in the pay matrix and have successfully completed probation period and possessing a Bachelor's Degree from a recognized university or equivalent on the crucial date shall be eligible to appear in the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination on the crucial date.(2) The eligibility shall continue to be the same for persons holding the feeder posts on regular basis on the date of notification of the revised rules. Note 1: The approved service rendered in the grade, on the 1st day of the recruitment year, as the residency period will be counted for promotion. Note 2: For the purposes of this rule, the period of approved service shall be calculated in the following manner, namely: (i) in respect of an officer recruited to that grade through departmental examination, period or periods of regular service rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post on regular basis in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first day of the recruitment year for vacancies of which such examination was held; (n) in respect of an officer recruited to that grade on the basis of length of service in the lower grade, period or periods of regular service rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post on regular basis in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first day of the recruitment year for which the recruitment was made Provided that where there is delay of more than Ninety days in joining on appointment, in any of the cases mentioned in the sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above, such delay should not be due to any fault on the part of the officer.

Question: What are the conditions for eligibity to appear in the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive Examination?
Answer: Conditions of eligibility.-(1) Personal Assistant in level-7 in the pay matrix (Rs. 44900-142400) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology who have rendered not less than five years approved service which should include at least four years regular and contiminus service in that level in the pay matrix and have successfully completed probation period and possessing a Bachelor's Degree from a recognized university or equivalent on the crucial date shall be eligible to appear in the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination on the crucial date.(2) The eligibility shall continue to be the same for persons holding the feeder posts on regular basis on the date of notification of the revised rules. Note 1: The approved service rendered in the grade, on the 1st day of the recruitment year, as the residency period will be counted for promotion. Note 2: For the purposes of this rule, the period of approved service shall be calculated in the following manner, namely: (i) in respect of an officer recruited to that grade through departmental examination, period or periods of regular service rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post on regular basis in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first day of the recruitment year for vacancies of which such examination was held; (n) in respect of an officer recruited to that grade on the basis of length of service in the lower grade, period or periods of regular service rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post on regular basis in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first day of the recruitment year for which the recruitment was made Provided that where there is delay of more than Ninety days in joining on appointment, in any of the cases mentioned in the sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above, such delay should not be due to any fault on the part of the officer.



Title: Holding of the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination

Content: Holding of the examination. - (1) The appointing authority shall notify the dates and place of the examination and number of available and anticipated vacancies assessed at the time of announcing the examination. (2) The examination shall be conducted after the expiry of at least thirty days from the date of notifying the vacancies in the manner specified in the Schedule which may be held before the 31st March of the recruitment year. (3) The number of vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of person, if any, shall be clearly indicated in the notification.

Question: Who notifies aspirants about the date, place and time of the examination?
Answer: The appointing authority shall notify the dates and place of the examination and number of available and anticipated vacancies assessed at the time of announcing the examination.

Question: When is the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive Examination held?
Answer: The examination shall be conducted after the expiry of at least thirty days from the date of notifying the vacancies in the manner specified in the Schedule which may be held before the 31st March of the recruitment year

Question: How many seats are reserved for Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes?
Answer: The number of vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of person, if any, shall be clearly indicated in the notification.



Title: Result and Appointment of the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination

Content: Results. - (1) On the basis of the aggregate marks secured by the candidate in Part I, II and III of the examination, a merit list containing the names of the successful candidates in order of merit shall be notified, keeping in view the number of vacancies and anticipated vacancies, if any, falling in the recruitment year.(2) The standards of evaluation for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be as per the Government instructions from time to time.(3) The candidates for appointment against the available vacancies shall be considered in the order in which their names appear in the merit list prepared under sub-rule (1).(4) The merit list shall remain in operation till the notified vacancies are filled up or upto a period of 18 months from the date of its approval by the appointing authority or till next merit list is approved by the appointing authority, whichever is earlier.6. Appointment. - The inclusion of the name of any candidate in the merit list shall not confer a right to appointment and he shall be appointed by the Appointing Authority only after satisfying itself that no vigilance or disciplinary case is either pending or contemplated against the candidate and after taking into account his placement in the merit list, the reservation of posts or such other requirements as may be laid down by statutory orders or rules issued by the Central Government, from time to time, in this regard.

Question: How are candiates notified about their results?
Answer: On the basis of the aggregate marks secured by the candidate in Part I, II and III of the examination, a merit list containing the names of the successful candidates in order of merit shall be notified, keeping in view the number of vacancies and anticipated vacancies, if any, falling in the recruitment year

Question: How are Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes candiates evaluated in the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination?
Answer: The standards of evaluation for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be as per the Government instructions from time to time.

Question: How are the candidates appointed to the available vacancies?
Answer: The candidates for appointment against the available vacancies shall be considered in the order in which their names appear in the merit list prepared under sub-rule (1)

Question: How long does the merit list remain in operation?
Answer: The merit list shall remain in operation till the notified vacancies are filled up or upto a period of 18 months from the date of its approval by the appointing authority or till next merit list is approved by the appointing authority, whichever is earlier

Question: What is the procedure for appointment of a candidate after passing the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination?
Answer: - The inclusion of the name of any candidate in the merit list shall not confer a right to appointment and he shall be appointed by the Appointing Authority only after satisfying itself that no vigilance or disciplinary case is either pending or contemplated against the candidate and after taking into account his placement in the merit list, the reservation of posts or such other requirements as may be laid down by statutory orders or rules issued by the Central Government, from time to time, in this regard.



Title: Penalty for impersonation or other misconduct in Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination

Content: Penalty for impersonation or other misconduct. - A candidate, who is or has been declared by the appointing authority to be guilty of (i) obtaining support for his candidature by any means; or (ii) impersonation; or (iii) procuring impersonation by any person; or (iv) submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with; or (v) making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information; or (vi) resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature for the examination; or (vii) using unfair means in the examinations hall; or (viii) misbehaving in the examination hall, or (ix) attempting to commit or, as the case may be, abetting the Ministry of all or any of the acts specified in clauses (i) to (viii): may, in addition to the criminal proceedings, liable (a) to be disqualified by the appointing authority from the examination; or (b) to disciplinary action, under the appropriate rules: Provided that no penalty under this rule shall be imposed except after (1) giving the candidate an opportunity of making such representation in writing as he may wish to make in that behalf; and (ii) taking the representation, if any submitted by the candidate within the period allowed to him, into consideration. 

Question: What are the grounds of misconduct in Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination?
Answer: A candidate, who is or has been declared by the appointing authority to be guilty of (i) obtaining support for his candidature by any means; or (ii) impersonation; or (iii) procuring impersonation by any person; or (iv) submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with; or (v) making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information; or (vi) resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature for the examination; or (vii) using unfair means in the examinations hall; or (viii) misbehaving in the examination hall

Question: What are the penalties for misconduct/impersonation in the Private Secretary Departmental Competitive  Examination?
Answer: attempting to commit or, as the case may be, abetting the Ministry of all or any of the acts specified in clauses (i) to (viii): may, in addition to the criminal proceedings, liable (a) to be disqualified by the appointing authority from the examination; or (b) to disciplinary action, under the appropriate rules: Provided that no penalty under this rule shall be imposed except after (1) giving the candidate an opportunity of making such representation in writing as he may wish to make in that behalf; and (ii) taking the representation, if any submitted by the candidate within the period allowed to him, into consideration. 



Title: 	Information Technology (Information Security Practices and Procedures for Protected System) Rules, 2018 (Definitions 1)

Content: (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -(a) "Act" means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000);(b) “Chief Information Security Officer” means the designated employee of Senior management, directly reporting to Managing Director /Chief Executive Officer/Secretary of the organisation, having knowledge of information security and related issues, responsible for cyber security efforts and initiatives including planning, developing, maintaining, reviewing and implementation of Information Security Policies;(c) "Critical Information Infrastructure" means Critical Information Infrastructure as referred to in explanation of sub-section (1) of section 70 of the Act;(d) “Cyber Crisis Management Plan” outlines a framework for dealing with cyber related incidents for a coordinated, multi-disciplinary and broad-based approach for rapid identification, information exchange, swift response and remedial actions to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber related incidents impacting critical processes;(e) "Cyber Incident" means any real or suspected adverse event that is likely to cause or causes an offence or contravention, harm to critical functions and services across the public and private sectors by impairing the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of electronic information, systems, services or networks resulting in unauthorised access, denial of service or disruption, unauthorised use of a computer resource, changes to data or information without authorisation; or threatens public health or safety, undermines public confidence, have a negative effect on the national economy, or diminishes the security posture of the nation; 

Question: Which act is reffered in the rules?
Answer: Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000)

Question: Who is the Chief Information Security Officer?
Answer: “Chief Information Security Officer” means the designated employee of Senior management, directly reporting to Managing Director /Chief Executive Officer/Secretary of the organisation, having knowledge of information security and related issues, responsible for cyber security efforts and initiatives including planning, developing, maintaining, reviewing and implementation of Information Security Policies

Question: What is critical information infrastucture?
Answer:  "Critical Information Infrastructure" means Critical Information Infrastructure as referred to in explanation of sub-section (1) of section 70 of the Act;(d) “Cyber Crisis Management Plan” outlines a framework for dealing with cyber related incidents for a coordinated, multi-disciplinary and broad-based approach for rapid identification, information exchange, swift response and remedial actions to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber related incidents impacting critical processes

Question: What is a cyber incident?
Answer: "Cyber Incident" means any real or suspected adverse event that is likely to cause or causes an offence or contravention, harm to critical functions and services across the public and private sectors by impairing the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of electronic information, systems, services or networks resulting in unauthorised access, denial of service or disruption, unauthorised use of a computer resource, changes to data or information without authorisation; or threatens public health or safety, undermines public confidence, have a negative effect on the national economy, or diminishes the security posture of the nation; 

Question: What is cyber crisis management plan?
Answer: “Cyber Crisis Management Plan” outlines a framework for dealing with cyber related incidents for a coordinated, multi-disciplinary and broad-based approach for rapid identification, information exchange, swift response and remedial actions to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber related incidents impacting critical processes



Title: 	Information Technology (Information Security Practices and Procedures for Protected System) Rules, 2018 (Definitions 2)

Content: (f) “Information Security Management System” means a set of policies, processes and procedures to establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and continually improve information security and minimize the risks by developing, maintaining, implementing and reviewing the adequate and appropriate security controls;(g) “Information Security Steering Committee” means the committee comprising higher management officials of the organisation, responsible for continuously improving and strengthening the cyber security posture of the Protected System and also plan, develop, review remedial actions to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber incidents;(h) “IT Security Service Level Agreements” means the legally recognised Service Level Agreements between the service providers and officials related to the “Protected System” for securing information related to “Protected System”;(i) “National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre” means the agency established under sub-section (1) of section 70A of the Act;(j) “Organisation” means-(i) Ministries or Departments of the Government of India, State Governments and Union territories;(ii) any agency of the Central Government, State Governments and Union territories;(iii) any other entity having a ‘Protected System’.(k) “Protected System” means any computer, computer system or computer network of any organisation as notified under section 70 of the Act, in the official gazette by appropriate Government.(l) “Service Provider” means any authorised individual(s), Government organisation, Public Sector Units(PSU), private agency, private company, partnership firm or any other body or agency providing services for the smooth and continuous functioning of the ‘Protected System’.

Question: What is information security management system?
Answer: “Information Security Management System” means a set of policies, processes and procedures to establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and continually improve information security and minimize the risks by developing, maintaining, implementing and reviewing the adequate and appropriate security controls

Question: What is Information Security Steering Committee?
Answer: “Information Security Steering Committee” means the committee comprising higher management officials of the organisation, responsible for continuously improving and strengthening the cyber security posture of the Protected System and also plan, develop, review remedial actions to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber incidents

Question: What are IT security Service Level Agreements?
Answer: “IT Security Service Level Agreements” means the legally recognised Service Level Agreements between the service providers and officials related to the “Protected System” for securing information related to “Protected System”

Question: What is National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre?
Answer: “National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre” means the agency established under sub-section (1) of section 70A of the Act

Question: What departments are contained when referring to "Organizations"?
Answer: “Organisation” means-(i) Ministries or Departments of the Government of India, State Governments and Union territories;(ii) any agency of the Central Government, State Governments and Union territories;(iii) any other entity having a ‘Protected System’

Question: What is a Protected System?
Answer: “Protected System” means any computer, computer system or computer network of any organisation as notified under section 70 of the Act, in the official gazette by appropriate Government

Question: Who are service providers?
Answer: “Service Provider” means any authorised individual(s), Government organisation, Public Sector Units(PSU), private agency, private company, partnership firm or any other body or agency providing services for the smooth and continuous functioning of the ‘Protected System



Title: MINISTRY OF ELECTRONICS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 4th September, 2018 

Content: In exercise of the powers conferred by section 79A of the Information Technology Act 2000 (21 of 2000), the Central Government hereby notifies Cyber Forensic Laboratory, under Army Cyber Group, Directorate General of Military Operations, Signals Enclave, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, as Examiner of Electronic Evidence within India, with the following scope, namely:- (a) Computer (Media) Forensics excluding Floppy Disk Drive;(b) Mobile Devices Forensics. With aforesaid notification, earlier published gazette notification No. S.O.2270(E) dated 24th July 2013,Extraordinary, Part II- Section 3 - Sub-section (ii), is rescinded by central Government. 

Question: Which year did the Information Technology Act get passed?
Answer: 2000

Question: What is the Information Technology excercised for?
Answer: In exercise of the powers conferred by section 79A of the Information Technology Act 2000 (21 of 2000), the Central Government hereby notifies Cyber Forensic Laboratory, under Army Cyber Group, Directorate General of Military Operations, Signals Enclave, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, as Examiner of Electronic Evidence within India

Question: What does the Examiner of Electronic evidence examine?
Answer: (a) Computer (Media) Forensics excluding Floppy Disk Drive;(b) Mobile Devices Forensics.



Title: DigiDhan Mission

Content: The Digital India Programme envisions transforming India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy by making available digital infrastructure, digital governance and digital services to every citizen. Promotion of a digital payments ecosystem is a natural extension of the Digital India programme and has the potential to transform India’s economy by formalization of financial transactions.1.2 Financial inclusion is one of the foremost challenges for India and Digital payments promises access to formal financial services and benefits from e-commerce, especially for those who continue to be excluded. Despite significant progress in bank-led payment systems, there remains a vast gap in the availability of basic payment services. Adoption of technology can transform the country into a cashless economy.1.2 India is currently on the cusp of a radical paradigm transition towards the adoption of technology towards the creation of a digital economy. The rapid proliferation of mobile phones across the population, as well as the rise and spread of digital technologies, signals the need for a focused initiative by the Government for establishing a robust, secure and inclusive pan-India digital payments ecosystem, which can be accessed by all sections of thepopulation.1.3 Hon’ble Finance Minister in his Budget Speech on February 1, 2017 had announced “a target of 2,500 crore digital transaction for 2017-18 through UPI, USSD, Aadhaar Pay, IMPS and debit cards.”; and had announced that a dedicated Mission shall be set up for this purpose. In pursuance of this vision, the Government is hereby setting up a dedicated Mission called the DIGIDHAN Mission under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)

Question: What is the Digital India Programme?
Answer: The Digital India Programme envisions transforming India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy by making available digital infrastructure, digital governance and digital services to every citizen

Question: Why is promotion of digital payments important?
Answer: Promotion of a digital payments ecosystem is a natural extension of the Digital India programme and has the potential to transform India’s economy by formalization of financial transactions

Question: What is Financial Inclusion?
Answer: Financial inclusion is one of the foremost challenges for India and Digital payments promises access to formal financial services and benefits from e-commerce, especially for those who continue to be excluded. Despite significant progress in bank-led payment systems, there remains a vast gap in the availability of basic payment services. Adoption of technology can transform the country into a cashless economy

Question: What is the scope of a digital economy in India?
Answer: India is currently on the cusp of a radical paradigm transition towards the adoption of technology towards the creation of a digital economy. The rapid proliferation of mobile phones across the population, as well as the rise and spread of digital technologies, signals the need for a focused initiative by the Government for establishing a robust, secure and inclusive pan-India digital payments ecosystem, which can be accessed by all sections of thepopulation

Question: What was the target amount of digital transactions in the year 2017
Answer: Hon’ble Finance Minister in his Budget Speech on February 1, 2017 had announced “a target of 2,500 crore digital transaction for 2017-18 through UPI, USSD, Aadhaar Pay, IMPS and debit cards.”; and had announced that a dedicated Mission shall be set up for this purpose.

Question: What is the DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: Hon’ble Finance Minister in his Budget Speech on February 1, 2017 had announced “a target of 2,500 crore digital transaction for 2017-18 through UPI, USSD, Aadhaar Pay, IMPS and debit cards.”; and had announced that a dedicated Mission shall be set up for this purpose. In pursuance of this vision, the Government is hereby setting up a dedicated Mission called the DIGIDHAN Mission under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)



Title: Objective and Functions of DIGIDHAN mission

Content: The DIGIDHAN Mission would have the following objectives and functions: I. Objectives 2.1 Achieving the target of 2500 crore Digital Payment Transactions in financial year 2017-18 through digital payment modes including UPI, USSD, IMPS, Aadhaar Pay and Debit Cards.2.2 Promoting and overseeing the establishment, growth and sustenance of a robust, secure and inclusive National Digital Payments ecosystem.2.3 Creating requisite enabling infrastructure for Government’s Digital Payments Service Delivery, Electronic Payments and Receipts (EPR) and Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT) programme.2.4 Evolving and facilitating appropriate standards for efficient, affordable and secure Digital Payments Services.2.5 Ensuring security of digital payments ecosystem.2.6 Promoting research and innovation, including the development of new digital payment products, platforms, services and sustainable delivery models .II. Functions2.7 Reviewing the existing institutional, legal, security, policy and regulatory frameworks related to digital payments transactions; and effecting/facilitating changes as required.2.8 Expanding acceptance infrastructure and back-end technology and related systems for digital payments; identification of new and viable technology platforms and options for digital payments.2.9 Facilitating R&D and innovation in the digital payments ecosystem.2.10 Proposing measures to enhance security of digital payments ecosystem.2.11 Proposing appropriate commercial and business models for digital payments including rationalizing transaction charges.

Question: What are the Objectives of the DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: 2.1 Achieving the target of 2500 crore Digital Payment Transactions in financial year 2017-18 through digital payment modes including UPI, USSD, IMPS, Aadhaar Pay and Debit Cards.2.2 Promoting and overseeing the establishment, growth and sustenance of a robust, secure and inclusive National Digital Payments ecosystem.2.3 Creating requisite enabling infrastructure for Government’s Digital Payments Service Delivery, Electronic Payments and Receipts (EPR) and Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT) programme.2.4 Evolving and facilitating appropriate standards for efficient, affordable and secure Digital Payments Services.2.5 Ensuring security of digital payments ecosystem.2.6 Promoting research and innovation, including the development of new digital payment products, platforms, services and sustainable delivery models 

Question: What are the functions of the DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: 2.7 Reviewing the existing institutional, legal, security, policy and regulatory frameworks related to digital payments transactions; and effecting/facilitating changes as required.2.8 Expanding acceptance infrastructure and back-end technology and related systems for digital payments; identification of new and viable technology platforms and options for digital payments.2.9 Facilitating R&D and innovation in the digital payments ecosystem.2.10 Proposing measures to enhance security of digital payments ecosystem.2.11 Proposing appropriate commercial and business models for digital payments including rationalizing transaction charges.

Question: Who creates the requisite infrastructure for Government’s Digital Payment Delivery?
Answer: The DIGIDHAN Mission

Question: Who ensures security of the digital payments in India?
Answer: The DIGIDHAN Mission



Title: Structure and Budget of DIGIDHAN mission

Content: Mission Structure 3.1 DIGIDHAN Mission is being setup under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). The governance structure of DIGIDHAN Mission will be as follows: The DIGIDHAN Mission Secretariat will comprise of MeitY staff and officers as well as subject matter experts on issues concerning digital payments including regulatory matters, technology aspects, business models, payments infrastructure, cyber security etc. It will also have staff to oversee monitoring and coordination efforts and work in partnership with other institutions to drive synergies and ensure convergence. 3.4 State level Committees: At the State level also, there shall be a Committee set-up under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary for implementing State level measures for promotion and proliferation of Digital Payments Mission Budget 4.1 The DIGIDHAN Mission will mobilize resources, as necessary for its activities, from appropriate sources including the Financial Inclusion Fund (FIF), Departments schemes, Banks and other corporate entities involved in the digital transactions ecosystem.4.2 Funds required for administrative purposes for the Mission shall be provided through the budgetary provisions of the Ministry of Electronic and Information Technology (MeitY) following due process.

Question: Who is included in the DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: The DIGIDHAN Mission Secretariat will comprise of MeitY staff and officers as well as subject matter experts on issues concerning digital payments including regulatory matters, technology aspects, business models, payments infrastructure, cyber security etc. It will also have staff to oversee monitoring and coordination efforts and work in partnership with other institutions to drive synergies and ensure convergence

Question: Who is the Chairman of the state level comittee of the DIGIDHA mission?
Answer: Chief Secretary

Question: What is the structure of state level committee of DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: State level Committees: At the State level also, there shall be a Committee set-up under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary for implementing State level measures for promotion and proliferation of Digital Payments 

Question: What are the sources of funding for the DIGIDHAN mission?
Answer: The DIGIDHAN Mission will mobilize resources, as necessary for its activities, from appropriate sources including the Financial Inclusion Fund (FIF), Departments schemes, Banks and other corporate entities involved in the digital transactions ecosystem

Question: What does FIF stand for?
Answer: Financial Inclusion Fund



Title: BHIM Aadhaar Merchant incentive Scheme || Notification on BHIM Aadhaar Merchant Incentive Scheme

Content: The Digital India Programme envisions transforming India into a Digitally empowered society and knowledge economy by making available digital infrastructure, digital governance and digital services to every citizen. Promotion of a digital payments ecosystem is a natural extension of the Digital India programme and has the potential to transform India’s economy by formalization of financial transactions. In the digital payments ecosystem, merchants play a very crucial role especially in country like India where nearly 90% of merchants are unorganized like small grocery stores, local apparels outlets, mom-n-pop stores and more. Apart from these, the merchants like local vendors, auto/taxi drivers etc., constitute of large share of unorganized merchants. Their customers often lack sophisticated digital payments means like debit cards, smart phones etc. This issue can be addressed by the mechanism of the innovative BHIM Aadhaar payment mode which requires citizens to only provide their Aadhaar (biometrics) to transact from their linked Bank account. To promote BHIM Aadhaar amongst merchants, this Merchant Incentive Scheme is being launched. The scheme aims to incentivize not just one-time adoption of BHIM Aadhaar by merchants, but should also increase the ease of transactions for all citizens as it uses the means of Aadhaar for digital transactions. The objectives of the scheme are twofold, viz.:(a)Increase in number of merchants registered on BHIM Aadhaar(b) Increase in number of merchant payment transactions using BHIM Aadhaar

Question: What does the Digital India Programme do?
Answer: The Digital India Programme envisions transforming India into a Digitally empowered society and knowledge economy by making available digital infrastructure, digital governance and digital services to every citizen. Promotion of a digital payments ecosystem is a natural extension of the Digital India programme and has the potential to transform India’s economy by formalization of financial transactions.

Question: What are unorganized merchants?
Answer: In the digital payments ecosystem, merchants play a very crucial role especially in country like India where nearly 90% of merchants are unorganized like small grocery stores, local apparels outlets, mom-n-pop stores and more. Apart from these, the merchants like local vendors, auto/taxi drivers etc., constitute of large share of unorganized merchants. Their customers often lack sophisticated digital payments means like debit cards, smart phones etc. 

Question: How can the issue of unorganized merchants be fixed?
Answer: This issue can be addressed by the mechanism of the innovative BHIM Aadhaar payment mode which requires citizens to only provide their Aadhaar (biometrics) to transact from their linked Bank account. To promote BHIM Aadhaar amongst merchants, this Merchant Incentive Scheme is being launched

Question: What is the Merchant incentive Scheme?
Answer: The scheme aims to incentivize not just one-time adoption of BHIM Aadhaar by merchants, but should also increase the ease of transactions for all citizens as it uses the means of Aadhaar for digital transactions. The objectives of the scheme are twofold, viz.:(a)Increase in number of merchants registered on BHIM Aadhaar(b) Increase in number of merchant payment transactions using BHIM Aadhaar

Question: What are the objectives of the Merchant Incentive Scheme?
Answer: The objectives of the scheme are twofold, viz.:(a)Increase in number of merchants registered on BHIM Aadhaar(b) Increase in number of merchant payment transactions using BHIM Aadhaar



Title: Definitions pertaining to the BHIM Aadhaar Merchant Incentive Scheme

Content: The definitions of key terms/entities as specified in the notification are as below: a. “Valid financial transactions”: Transaction amount less than Rs. 2,000 b. “Merchant acquiring bank” – Bank which has enabled and deployed the BHIM Aadhaar device at the merchant location c. “BHIM Aadhaar Merchant”: Has to be a BHIM Aadhaar user. For the purposes of the Incentive Scheme for BHIM Aadhaar a merchant (and accordingly the incentive receipt) would be defined as: Any entity which is engaged in trading of goods and services. The merchant has to be made enabled on the BHIM Aadhaar platform by respective banks The transaction criteria to qualify to receive incentive is the number of successful financial transactions executed at each merchant location The computation for the incentives shall be done basis the transaction criteria. Uploaded

Question: How do we define a valid financial transaction?
Answer: “Valid financial transactions”: Transaction amount less than Rs. 2,000

Question: What is a valid financial transaction?
Answer: “Valid financial transactions”: Transaction amount less than Rs. 2,000

Question: Who enables the BHIM Aadhaar device for merchants?
Answer: “Merchant acquiring bank” – Bank which has enabled and deployed the BHIM Aadhaar device at the merchant location

Question: What is a merchant acquiring bank?
Answer: “Merchant acquiring bank” – Bank which has enabled and deployed the BHIM Aadhaar device at the merchant location

Question: Who is a BHIM Aadhaar merchant?
Answer: “BHIM Aadhaar Merchant”: Has to be a BHIM Aadhaar user. For the purposes of the Incentive Scheme for BHIM Aadhaar a merchant (and accordingly the incentive receipt) would be defined as: Any entity which is engaged in trading of goods and services. The merchant has to be made enabled on the BHIM Aadhaar platform by respective banks

Question: How is a merchant eligible to recieve incentive?
Answer: The transaction criteria to qualify to receive incentive is the number of successful financial transactions executed at each merchant location

Question: How are the incentives calculated?
Answer: The computation for the incentives shall be done basis the transaction criteria



Title: Policy on use of IT Resources of Government of India

Content: Government provides IT resources to its employees to enhance their efficiency and productivity. These resources are meant as tools to access and process information related to their areas of work. These resources help Government officials to remain well informed and carry out their functions in an efficient and effective manner.1.2 For the purpose of this policy, the term ‘IT Resources’ includes desktop devices, portable and mobile devices, networks including wireless networks, Internet connectivity, external storage devices and peripherals like printers and scanners and the software associated therewith.1.3 Misuse of these resources can result in unwanted risk and liabilities for the Government. It is, therefore, expected that these resources are used primarily for Government related purposes and in a lawful and ethical way.2. Scope This policy governs the usage of IT Resources from an end user’s perspective. This policy is applicable to all employees of GoI and employees of those State/UT Governments that use the IT Resources of GoI and also those State/UT Governments that choose to adopt this policy in future.3. Objective The objective of this policy is to ensure proper access to and usage of Government’s IT resources and prevent their misuse by the users. Use of resources provided by Government of India (GoI) implies the user's agreement to be governed by this policy.

Question: Does the government of India provide resources for its employees?
Answer: Government provides IT resources to its employees to enhance their efficiency and productivity. These resources are meant as tools to access and process information related to their areas of work

Question: How are IT resources useful?
Answer: Government provides IT resources to its employees to enhance their efficiency and productivity. These resources are meant as tools to access and process information related to their areas of work. These resources help Government officials to remain well informed and carry out their functions in an efficient and effective manner

Question: What do we mean by IT resources?
Answer:  For the purpose of this policy, the term ‘IT Resources’ includes desktop devices, portable and mobile devices, networks including wireless networks, Internet connectivity, external storage devices and peripherals like printers and scanners and the software associated therewith

Question: Can the IT resources be misused in any way?
Answer: Misuse of these resources can result in unwanted risk and liabilities for the Government. It is, therefore, expected that these resources are used primarily for Government related purposes and in a lawful and ethical way.

Question: What does the Policy on use of IT resources of Government of India do?
Answer: This policy governs the usage of IT Resources from an end user’s perspective. This policy is applicable to all employees of GoI and employees of those State/UT Governments that use the IT Resources of GoI and also those State/UT Governments that choose to adopt this policy in future.

Question: What is the objective of the policy on use of IT resources of Government of India?
Answer: The objective of this policy is to ensure proper access to and usage of Government’s IT resources and prevent their misuse by the users. Use of resources provided by Government of India (GoI) implies the user's agreement to be governed by this policy.



Title: Policy on use of IT Resources of Government of India contd

Content: Roles and Responsibilities The following roles are required in each organization using the Central / State / UT Government IT resources. The official identified for the task shall be responsible for the management of the IT resources deployed for the use of entire user base under their respective domain.4.1 Competent Authority as identified by each organization.4.2 Designated Nodal Officer as identified by each organization.4.3 Implementing Agency: The overall responsibility for Information Security will be that of the respective organization. In the interest of security of the network services, it is recommended that the organizations should use the GoI network services provided by NIC, in which case NIC would be the Implementing Agency for security of network services on behalf of the concerned organization. In organizations not using NIC network services, the respective organization will be the Implementing Agency.4.4 The Nodal Agency for managing all IT Resources except network services shall be the respective organization. 

Question: Who is allowed to use IT resources given by the government?
Answer: The following roles are required in each organization using the Central / State / UT Government IT resources. The official identified for the task shall be responsible for the management of the IT resources deployed for the use of entire user base under their respective domain.4.1 Competent Authority as identified by each organization.4.2 Designated Nodal Officer as identified by each organization.4.3 Implementing Agency: The overall responsibility for Information Security will be that of the respective organization. In the interest of security of the network services, it is recommended that the organizations should use the GoI network services provided by NIC, in which case NIC would be the Implementing Agency for security of network services on behalf of the concerned organization. In organizations not using NIC network services, the respective organization will be the Implementing Agency.4.4 The Nodal Agency for managing all IT Resources except network services shall be the respective organization. 

Question Which network is recommended to be used by government employees?
Answer: In the interest of security of the network services, it is recommended that the organizations should use the GoI network services provided by NIC, in which case NIC would be the Implementing Agency for security of network services on behalf of the concerned organization.



Title: Policy on use of IT Resources of Government of India contd contd

Content: Access to the Network 5.1. Access to Internet and Intranet a) A user shall register the client system and obtain one time approval from the competent authority before connecting the client system to the Government network. b) It is strongly recommended that sensitive offices shall maintain two independent networks, i.e. Internet and Intranet. Both the networks shall not have any physical connection/devices between them. Users in such deployments shall have two access devices, i.e. desktops. One shall be connected to the internet and the other to the intranet. End point compliance shall be implemented on both the networks to prevent unauthorised access to data. c) Users shall not undertake any activity through any website or applications to bypass filtering of the network or perform any other unlawful acts which may harm the network’s performance or security.5.2 Access to Government Wireless Networks For connecting to a Government wireless network, user shall ensure the following:—a) A user shall register the access device and obtain one time approval from the competent authority before connecting the access device to the Government wireless network. b) Wireless client systems and wireless devices shall not be allowed to connect to the Government wireless access points without due authentication. c) To ensure information security, it is recommended that users should not connect their devices to unsecured wireless networks.5.3 Filtering and blocking of sites: a) IA may block content over the Internet which is in contravention of the relevant provisions of the IT Act 2000 and other applicable laws or which may pose a security threat to the network. b) IA may also block content which, in the opinion of the organization concerned, is inappropriate or may adversely affect the productivity of the users

Question: How can an employee access the government network?
Answer: A user shall register the client system and obtain one time approval from the competent authority before connecting the client system to the Government network

Question: How are the networks of sensitive departments secured?
Answer: It is strongly recommended that sensitive offices shall maintain two independent networks, i.e. Internet and Intranet. Both the networks shall not have any physical connection/devices between them. Users in such deployments shall have two access devices, i.e. desktops. One shall be connected to the internet and the other to the intranet. End point compliance shall be implemented on both the networks to prevent unauthorised access to data.

Question: What are the restrictions while using the government provided internet?
Answer: sers shall not undertake any activity through any website or applications to bypass filtering of the network or perform any other unlawful acts which may harm the network’s performance or security.

Question: How can a user connect to the government wireless networks?
Answer: For connecting to a Government wireless network, user shall ensure the following:—a) A user shall register the access device and obtain one time approval from the competent authority before connecting the access device to the Government wireless network. b) Wireless client systems and wireless devices shall not be allowed to connect to the Government wireless access points without due authentication. c) To ensure information security, it is recommended that users should not connect their devices to unsecured wireless networks.

Question: Can a user connect to a government wireless network using any device?
Answer: Wireless client systems and wireless devices shall not be allowed to connect to the Government wireless access points without due authentication

Question: How is information security ensured in a government wireless network?
Answer: To ensure information security, it is recommended that users should not connect their devices to unsecured wireless networks

Question: How does filtering of content work in the givernment wireless network?
Answer: a) IA may block content over the Internet which is in contravention of the relevant provisions of the IT Act 2000 and other applicable laws or which may pose a security threat to the network. b) IA may also block content which, in the opinion of the organization concerned, is inappropriate or may adversely affect the productivity of the users



Title: Policy on use of IT Resources of Government of India contd contd cont 

Content: Monitoring and Privacy: 6.1 IA shall have the right to audit networks and systems at regular intervals, from the point of compliance to this policy. 6.2 IA/Nodal Agency, for security related reasons or for compliance with applicable laws, may access, review, copy or delete any kind of electronic communication or files stored on Government provided devices under intimation to the user. This includes items such as files, e-mails, and Internet history etc. 6.3 IA may monitor user’s online activities on Government network, subject to such Standard Operating Procedures as the organization may lay down in this regard. 7. E-mail Access from the Government Network 7.1 Users shall refrain from using private e-mail servers from Government network. 7.2 E-mail service authorized by the Government and implemented by the IA shall only be used for all official correspondence. For personal correspondence, users may use the name-based e-mail id assigned to them on the Government authorized e-mail Service. 7.3 More details in this regard are provided in the “E-mail Policy of Government of India”. 8.  Access to Social Media Sites from Government Network 8.1 Use of social networking sites by Government organizations is governed by “Framework and Guidelines for use of Social Media for Government Organizations” available at http://deity.gov.in. 8.2 User shall comply with all the applicable provisions under the IT Act, 2000, while posting any data pertaining to the Government on social networking sites. 8.3 User shall adhere to the “Terms of Use” of the relevant social media platform/website, as well as copyright, privacy, defamation, contempt of court, discrimination, harassment and other applicable laws. 8.4 User shall report any suspicious incident as soon as possible to the competent authority. 8.5 User shall always use high security settings on social networking sites. 8.6 User shall not post any material that is offensive, threatening, obscene, infringes copyright, defamatory, hateful, harassing, bullying, discriminatory, racist, sexist, or is otherwise unlawful. 8.7 User shall not disclose or use any confidential information obtained in their capacity as an employee/contractor of the organization. 8.8 User shall not make any comment or post any material that might otherwise cause damage to the organization’s reputation.

Question: Who has the right to audit networks and systems?
Answer: Nodal Agency

Question: Can an employee's files be accessed by anyone else?
Answer: IA/Nodal Agency, for security related reasons or for compliance with applicable laws, may access, review, copy or delete any kind of electronic communication or files stored on Government provided devices under intimation to the user. This includes items such as files, e-mails, and Internet history etc

Question: Can a user use their personal e-mail on the government network?
Answer: Users shall refrain from using private e-mail servers from Government network

Question: What restrictions does a user have while using social network sites on government networks?
Answer: 8.1 Use of social networking sites by Government organizations is governed by “Framework and Guidelines for use of Social Media for Government Organizations” available at http://deity.gov.in. 8.2 User shall comply with all the applicable provisions under the IT Act, 2000, while posting any data pertaining to the Government on social networking sites. 8.3 User shall adhere to the “Terms of Use” of the relevant social media platform/website, as well as copyright, privacy, defamation, contempt of court, discrimination, harassment and other applicable laws. 8.4 User shall report any suspicious incident as soon as possible to the competent authority. 8.5 User shall always use high security settings on social networking sites. 8.6 User shall not post any material that is offensive, threatening, obscene, infringes copyright, defamatory, hateful, harassing, bullying, discriminatory, racist, sexist, or is otherwise unlawful. 8.7 User shall not disclose or use any confidential information obtained in their capacity as an employee/contractor of the organization. 8.8 User shall not make any comment or post any material that might otherwise cause damage to the organization’s reputation.

Question: What can/cannot a user post on social media while using government network?
Answer: 8.6 User shall not post any material that is offensive, threatening, obscene, infringes copyright, defamatory, hateful, harassing, bullying, discriminatory, racist, sexist, or is otherwise unlawful. 8.7 User shall not disclose or use any confidential information obtained in their capacity as an employee/contractor of the organization.

Question: How is a user supposed to react after seeing something suspicious on social media while on the government network?
Answer:  User shall report any suspicious incident as soon as possible to the competent authority.



Title: National Cyber Security Policy

Content: 1. Cyberspace is a complex environment consisting of interactions between people, software, and services, supported by worldwide distribution of Information and communication technology (ICT) devices and networks 2. Owing to the numerous benefits brought about by technological advancements, the cyberspace today is a common pool used by citizens, businesses, critical information infrastructure, military and governments in a manner that makes it difficult to draw clear boundaries among these different groups The cyberspace is expected to be more complex in the foreseeable future, with many fold increase in networks and devices connected to it. 3. Information Technology (IT) is one of the critical sectors that rides on and resides in cyberspace. It has emerged as one of the most significant growth catalysts for the Indian economy. In addition to fueling India's economy, this sector is also positively influencing the lives of its people through direct and indirect contribution to the various socio-economic parameters such as employment, standard of living and diversity among others The sector has played a significant role in transforming India's image to that of a global player in providing world-class technology solutions and IT business services. The government has been a key driver for increased adoption of IT-based products and IT enabled services in Public services (Government to citizen services, citizen identification, public distribution systems), Healthcare (telemedicine, remote consultation mobile clinics), Education (e-Learning, virtual classrooms, etc) and Financial services (mobile banking/ payment gateways), etc. Such initiatives have enabled increased IT adoption in the country through sectoral reforms and National programmes which have led to creation of large-scale IT infrastructure with corporate and private participation. 4. In the light of the growth of IT sector in the country, ambitious plans for rapid social transformation and inclusive growth and India's prominent role in the IT global market, providing right kind of focus for creating secure computing environment and adequate trust and confidence in electronic transactions, software, services, devices and networks, has become one of the compelling priorities for the country Such a focus enables creation of a suitable cyber security eco-system in the country, in tune with globally networked environment.

Question: What is a cyberspace?
Answer: Cyberspace is a complex environment consisting of interactions between people, software, and services, supported by worldwide distribution of Information and communication technology (ICT) devices and networks

Question: Who uses cyberspace?
Answer: the cyberspace today is a common pool used by citizens, businesses, critical information infrastructure, military and governments

Question: Which critical sector lies under the cyberspace?
Answer: Information Technology (IT) is one of the critical sectors that rides on and resides in cyberspace

Question: How is the IT sector important?
Answer: Information Technology (IT) is one of the critical sectors that rides on and resides in cyberspace. It has emerged as one of the most significant growth catalysts for the Indian economy. In addition to fueling India's economy, this sector is also positively influencing the lives of its people through direct and indirect contribution to the various socio-economic parameters such as employment, standard of living and diversity among others The sector has played a significant role in transforming India's image to that of a global player in providing world-class technology solutions and IT business services. The government has been a key driver for increased adoption of IT-based products and IT enabled services in Public services (Government to citizen services, citizen identification, public distribution systems), Healthcare (telemedicine, remote consultation mobile clinics), Education (e-Learning, virtual classrooms, etc) and Financial services (mobile banking/ payment gateways), etc. Such initiatives have enabled increased IT adoption in the country through sectoral reforms and National programmes which have led to creation of large-scale IT infrastructure with corporate and private participation

Question: How was the adoption of Information Technology boosted by the government?
Answer: The government has been a key driver for increased adoption of IT-based products and IT enabled services in Public services (Government to citizen services, citizen identification, public distribution systems), Healthcare (telemedicine, remote consultation mobile clinics), Education (e-Learning, virtual classrooms, etc) and Financial services (mobile banking/ payment gateways), etc. Such initiatives have enabled increased IT adoption in the country through sectoral reforms and National programmes which have led to creation of large-scale IT infrastructure with corporate and private participation.

Question: What is the future scope of the IT sector?
Answer:  In the light of the growth of IT sector in the country, ambitious plans for rapid social transformation and inclusive growth and India's prominent role in the IT global market, providing right kind of focus for creating secure computing environment and adequate trust and confidence in electronic transactions, software, services, devices and networks, has become one of the compelling priorities for the country Such a focus enables creation of a suitable cyber security eco-system in the country, in tune with globally networked environment.



Title: Ntnl Cyber Security Policy contd

Content: 5. Cyberspace is vulnerable to a wide variety of incidents, whether intentional or accidental, manmade or natural, and the data exchanged in the cyberspace can be exploited for nefarious purposes by both nation states and non-state actors. Cyber attacks that target the infrastructure or underlying economic well-being of a nation state can effectively reduce available state resources and undermine confidence in their supporting structures. A cyber related incident of national significance may take any form; an organized cyber attack, an uncontrolled exploit such as computer virus or worms or any malicious software code, a national disaster with significant cyber consequences or other related incidents capable of causing extensive damage to the information infrastructure or key assets. Large-scale cyber incidents may overwhelm the government, public and private sector resources and services by disrupting functioning of critical information systems. Complications from disruptions of such a magnitude may threaten lives, economy and national security. Rapid identification, information exchange, investigation and coordinated response and remediation can mitigate the damage caused by malicious cyberspace activity. Some of the examples of cyber threats to individuals, businesses and government are identity theft, phishing, social engineering, hactivism, cyber terrorism, compound threats targeting mobile devices and smart phone, compromised digital certificates, advanced persistent threats, denial of service, bot nets, supply chain attacks, data leakage, etc. The protection of information infrastructure and preservation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information in cyberspace is the essence of a secure cyber space. 6. There are various ongoing activities and programs of the Government to address the cyber security challenges which have significantly contributed to the creation of a platform that is now capable of supporting and sustaining the efforts in securing the cyber space. Due to the dynamic nature of cyberspace, there is now a need for these actions to be unified under a National Cyber Security Policy, with an integrated vision and a set of sustained and coordinated strategies for implementation. 7. The cyber security policy is an evolving task and it caters to the whole spectrum of ICT users and providers including home users and small, medium and large enterprises and Government and non-Government entities. It serves as an umbrella framework for defining and guiding the actions related to security of cyberspace. It also enables the individual sectors and organizations in designing appropriate cyber security policies to suit their needs. The policy provides an overview of what it takes to effectively protect information. information systems and networks and also gives an insight into the Government's approach and strategy for protection of cyber space in the country. It also outlines some pointers to enable collaborative working of all key players in public and private to safeguard country's information and information systems. This policy, therefore, aims to create a cyber security framework, which leads to specific actions and programmes to enhance the security posture of country's cyber space.

Question: Why should a cyberspace be kept secure?
Answer: Cyberspace is vulnerable to a wide variety of incidents, whether intentional or accidental, manmade or natural, and the data exchanged in the cyberspace can be exploited for nefarious purposes by both nation states and non-state actors. Cyber attacks that target the infrastructure or underlying economic well-being of a nation state can effectively reduce available state resources and undermine confidence in their supporting structures. A cyber related incident of national significance may take any form; an organized cyber attack, an uncontrolled exploit such as computer virus or worms or any malicious software code, a national disaster with significant cyber consequences or other related incidents capable of causing extensive damage to the information infrastructure or key assets. Large-scale cyber incidents may overwhelm the government, public and private sector resources and services by disrupting functioning of critical information systems. Complications from disruptions of such a magnitude may threaten lives, economy and national security. Rapid identification, information exchange, investigation and coordinated response and remediation can mitigate the damage caused by malicious cyberspace activity. Some of the examples of cyber threats to individuals, businesses and government are identity theft, phishing, social engineering, hactivism, cyber terrorism, compound threats targeting mobile devices and smart phone, compromised digital certificates, advanced persistent threats, denial of service, bot nets, supply chain attacks, data leakage, etc. The protection of information infrastructure and preservation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information in cyberspace is the essence of a secure cyber space.

Question: How can cyber attacks harm the government?
Answer: A cyber related incident of national significance may take any form; an organized cyber attack, an uncontrolled exploit such as computer virus or worms or any malicious software code, a national disaster with significant cyber consequences or other related incidents capable of causing extensive damage to the information infrastructure or key assets. Large-scale cyber incidents may overwhelm the government, public and private sector resources and services by disrupting functioning of critical information systems. Complications from disruptions of such a magnitude may threaten lives, economy and national security.

Question: How is the Government making the cyberspace secure?
Answer:  There are various ongoing activities and programs of the Government to address the cyber security challenges which have significantly contributed to the creation of a platform that is now capable of supporting and sustaining the efforts in securing the cyber space. Due to the dynamic nature of cyberspace, there is now a need for these actions to be unified under a National Cyber Security Policy, with an integrated vision and a set of sustained and coordinated strategies for implementation

Question: Why is a secure cyberspace needed?
There are various ongoing activities and programs of the Government to address the cyber security challenges which have significantly contributed to the creation of a platform that is now capable of supporting and sustaining the efforts in securing the cyber space. Due to the dynamic nature of cyberspace, there is now a need for these actions to be unified under a National Cyber Security Policy, with an integrated vision and a set of sustained and coordinated strategies for implementation.

Question: What is the Cyber Security Policy?
Answer: he cyber security policy is an evolving task and it caters to the whole spectrum of ICT users and providers including home users and small, medium and large enterprises and Government and non-Government entities. It serves as an umbrella framework for defining and guiding the actions related to security of cyberspace. It also enables the individual sectors and organizations in designing appropriate cyber security policies to suit their needs. The policy provides an overview of what it takes to effectively protect information. information systems and networks and also gives an insight into the Government's approach and strategy for protection of cyber space in the country. It also outlines some pointers to enable collaborative working of all key players in public and private to safeguard country's information and information systems. This policy, therefore, aims to create a cyber security framework, which leads to specific actions and programmes to enhance the security posture of country's cyber space.



Title: Cyber security policy vision, mission, and objectives

Content: Vision To build a secure and resilient cyberspace for citizens, businesses and Government 1. Mission To protect information and information infrastructure in cyberspace, build capabilities to prevent and respond to cyber threats, reduce vulnerabilities and minimize damage from cyber incidents through a combination of institutional structures, people, processes, technology and cooperation 1. Objectives 1) To create a secure cyber ecosystem in the country, generate adequate trust and confidence in IT systems and transactions in cyberspace and thereby enhance adoption of IT in all sectors of the economy. 2) To To create an assurance framework for design of security policies and for promotion and enabling actions for compliance to global security standards and best practices by way of conformity assessment (product, process, technology and people).3) To strengthen the Regulatory framework for ensuring a Secure Cyberspace ecosystem 4) To enhance and create National and Sectoral level 24 x 7 mechanisms for obtaining strategic information regarding threats to ICT infrastructure, creating scenarios for response, resolution and crisis management through effective predictive, preventive, protective, response and recovery actions 5) To enhance the protection and resilience of Nation's critical information infrastructure by operating a 24x7 National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) and mandating security practices related to the design, acquisition, development, use and operation of information resources 6) To develop suitable indigenous security technologies through frontier technology research, solution oriented research, proof of concept, pilot development, transition, diffusion and commercialization leading to widespread deployment of secure ICT products/processes in general and specifically for addressing National Security requirements. 7) To improve visibility of the integrity of ICT products and services by establishing infrastructure for testing and validation of security of such products. 8) To create a workforce of 500,000 professionals skilled in cyber security in the next 5 years through capacity building, skill development and training 9) To provide fiscal benefits to businesses for adoption of standard security practices and processes

Question: What is the main vision of the National Cyber Security Policy?
Answer: To build a secure and resilient cyberspace for citizens, businesses and Government

Question: What is the mission of the National Cyber Security Policy?
Answer: To protect information and information infrastructure in cyberspace, build capabilities to prevent and respond to cyber threats, reduce vulnerabilities and minimize damage from cyber incidents through a combination of institutional structures, people, processes, technology and cooperation 

Question: What are the objectives of the National Cyber Security Policy?
Answer: 1) To create a secure cyber ecosystem in the country, generate adequate trust and confidence in IT systems and transactions in cyberspace and thereby enhance adoption of IT in all sectors of the economy. 2) To To create an assurance framework for design of security policies and for promotion and enabling actions for compliance to global security standards and best practices by way of conformity assessment (product, process, technology and people).3) To strengthen the Regulatory framework for ensuring a Secure Cyberspace ecosystem 4) To enhance and create National and Sectoral level 24 x 7 mechanisms for obtaining strategic information regarding threats to ICT infrastructure, creating scenarios for response, resolution and crisis management through effective predictive, preventive, protective, response and recovery actions 5) To enhance the protection and resilience of Nation's critical information infrastructure by operating a 24x7 National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) and mandating security practices related to the design, acquisition, development, use and operation of information resources 6) To develop suitable indigenous security technologies through frontier technology research, solution oriented research, proof of concept, pilot development, transition, diffusion and commercialization leading to widespread deployment of secure ICT products/processes in general and specifically for addressing National Security requirements. 7) To improve visibility of the integrity of ICT products and services by establishing infrastructure for testing and validation of security of such products. 8) To create a workforce of 500,000 professionals skilled in cyber security in the next 5 years through capacity building, skill development and training 9) To provide fiscal benefits to businesses for adoption of standard security practices and processes

Question: What does NCIIPC stand for?
Answer: National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre

Question: What is the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre?
Answer: To enhance the protection and resilience of Nation's critical information infrastructure by operating a 24x7 National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) and mandating security practices related to the design, acquisition, development, use and operation of information resources



Title: Digital locker definitions

Content: 1. Short Title and Commencement.–– (1) These rules may be called the Information Technology (Preservation and Retention of Information by Intermediaries Providing Digital Locker Facilities) Rules, 2016. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 2. Definitions.–– (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,––a) “Act” means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000);b) “access gateway” means authorised system to provide access to repositories under Digital Locker system; c) “application program interface (API)”, means a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications; d) “body corporate” means body corporate as defined in Explanation (1) to section 43A of the Act; e) “DeitY” means the Department of Electronics and Information Technology in the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Government of India; f) “DigiLocker” means the Government owned and operated web and mobile based hosting of Digital Locker system; g) “Digital Locker” means a service of preservation, retention of electronic records by the subscriber and delivery of electronic records to the subscriber; h) “Digital Locker authority” means an authority as designated by the Government for the licensing, empanelment and management of Digital Locker service providers; i) “Digital Locker Directory” means a web page managed by the Government or Digital Locker authority for registration and providing details of registered locker providers, issuers, requester, repositories and access gateways providers; j) “Digital Locker Portal” means a web and mobile based system to provide access to documents under Digital Locker System to the users; k) “Digital Locker Practice Statement” means a statement by the Digital Locker service provider describing the services and flow of the services being offered by the provider; l) “Digital Locker service provider” means an intermediary including a body corporate or an agency of the appropriate Government, as may be notified by the Government, to provide Digital Locker, access gateways and, or, repository facilities electronically, in accordance with these rules; 

Question: What is an access gateway?
Answer: “access gateway” means authorised system to provide access to repositories under Digital Locker system

Question: What does Application program interface mean?
Answer: “application program interface (API)”, means a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications;

Question: What does API stand for?
Answer: application program interface 

Question: What does "DeitY” stand for?
Answer: Department of Electronics and Information Technology in the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Government of India

Question: What is a DigiLocker?
Answer: “DigiLocker” means the Government owned and operated web and mobile based hosting of Digital Locker system

Question: What is a Digital Locker?
Answer: “Digital Locker” means a service of preservation, retention of electronic records by the subscriber and delivery of electronic records to the subscriber

Question: Which Government authority controls the licensing of Digital Lockers?
Answer: “Digital Locker authority”

Question: Where can we find details pertaining to Digital Lockers?
Answer: Digital Locker Directory”

Question: What is a Digital Locker Directory?
Answer: “Digital Locker Directory” means a web page managed by the Government or Digital Locker authority for registration and providing details of registered locker providers, issuers, requester, repositories and access gateways providers

Question: What is a Digital Locker Portal?
Answer: Digital Locker Portal” means a web and mobile based system to provide access to documents under Digital Locker System to the users;

Question: Who provides acess to the documents in a Digital Locker System?
Answer: Digital Locker Portal” means a web and mobile based system to provide access to documents under Digital Locker System to the users

Question: What is a “Digital Locker Practice Statement”?
Answer: “Digital Locker Practice Statement” means a statement by the Digital Locker service provider describing the services and flow of the services being offered by the provider

Question: Who provides digital lockers/access gateways to the users?
Answer: “Digital Locker service provider”

Question: Who is a Digital Locker Service provider?
Answer: “Digital Locker service provider” means an intermediary including a body corporate or an agency of the appropriate Government, as may be notified by the Government, to provide Digital Locker, access gateways and, or, repository facilities electronically, in accordance with these rules; 



Title: Digital locker definitions contd.

Content: m) “Digital Locker system”, means an application based system to provide Digital Locker services to the users with the help of authorised service providers, providing Digital Locker, access gateways and, or, repositories facilities; n) “equivalently authenticated electronic record” means an electronic record authenticated by any other means other than digital signatures as prescribed under the Digital Locker standard guidelines; o) “Government” means the Central Government; p) “issuer” means any State or Central department or agency or body corporate issuing digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records to the subscriber under Digital Locker system; q) “License” means binding agreement between the Digital Locker authority and any Digital Locker service provider; r) “repository” means an electronic repository of digitally signed and, or, digitised electronic records, maintained by any Digital Locker service provider or an issuer for the purpose of accessing such records and delivering them to the users; s) “requester” means any State or Central department or agency or body corporate requesting access to subscriber’s digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records preserved and retained in the repository created and managed under Digital Locker system; t) “subscriber” means subscriber to a Digital Locker under the Digital Locker system; u) “Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)”, means unique reference to a document stored in a Digital Locker repository; v) “user” means a subscriber, issuer or requester of the Digital Locker system.

Question: What is a Digital Locker System?
Answer: “Digital Locker system”, means an application based system to provide Digital Locker services to the users with the help of authorised service providers, providing Digital Locker, access gateways and, or, repositories facilities

Question: How are records maintained in a Digital Locker System?
Answer: “equivalently authenticated electronic record” means an electronic record authenticated by any other means other than digital signatures as prescribed under the Digital Locker standard guidelines

Question: Who is an issuer of a Digital Locker System?
Answer: “issuer” means any State or Central department or agency or body corporate issuing digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records to the subscriber under Digital Locker system

Question: What is a repository?
Answer: “repository” means an electronic repository of digitally signed and, or, digitised electronic records, maintained by any Digital Locker service provider or an issuer for the purpose of accessing such records and delivering them to the users

Question: Who maintains a Digital Locker repository?
Answer: electronic repository of digitally signed and, or, digitised electronic records, maintained by any Digital Locker service provider or an issuer for the purpose of accessing such records and delivering them to the users

Question: Who is a requester in a Digital Locker?
Answer: “requester” means any State or Central department or agency or body corporate requesting access to subscriber’s digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records preserved and retained in the repository created and managed under Digital Locker system

Question: What does URI stand for ?
Answer: Uniform Resource Identifier 

Question: What is a  “Uniform Resource Identifier"?
Answer: “Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)”, means unique reference to a document stored in a Digital Locker repository

Question: who are the users of a Digital Locker System?
Answer: “user” means a subscriber, issuer or requester of the Digital Locker system.



Title: Appointment of Digital Locker Authority and more

Content: Appointment of Digital Locker Authority.–– (1) The Government shall appoint the Digital Locker authority to establish, administer, and manage Digital Locker system to preserve and retain information for efficient delivery of services to the users through Digital Locker system. (2) The Digital Locker authority shall discharge its functions as notified under these rules subject to the general control and directions of the DeitY. (3) The Digital Locker authority shall authorise the Digital Locker service provider to provide Digital Locker, access gateway and, or, repository facility electronically, in accordance with these rules.4. Digital Locker System.–– (1) For the purpose of providing preservation and retention of machine readable, printable, shareable, verifiable and secure State or Central department or agency or body corporate issued electronic records, the Government and other service providers to provide a Digital Locker system of limited electronic storage to all users. (2) The Government through Digital Locker authority and in accordance with the technical standards as laid down by the DeitY from time to time shall provide for the administration of Digital Locker system. (3) Subject to sub-rule (1), the Digital Locker system shall act as web and mobile based portal for State or Central department or agency or body corporate issued electronic records maintained in a prescribed format. 

Question: Who appoints the authority for Digital Lockers?
Answer: The Government shall appoint the Digital Locker authority to establish, administer, and manage Digital Locker system to preserve and retain information for efficient delivery of services to the users through Digital Locker system

Question: Who authorises the provision of Digital Lockers?
Answer: The Digital Locker authority shall authorise the Digital Locker service provider to provide Digital Locker, access gateway and, or, repository facility electronically

Question: What is the use of Digital Lockers?
Answer: For the purpose of providing preservation and retention of machine readable, printable, shareable, verifiable and secure State or Central department or agency or body corporate issued electronic records, the Government and other service providers to provide a Digital Locker system of limited electronic storage to all users.

Question: Who provides administration for the Digital Lockers?
Answer: The Government through Digital Locker authority and in accordance with the technical standards as laid down by the DeitY from time to time shall provide for the administration of Digital Locker system.

Question: Is Digital Locker web based?
Answer: the Digital Locker system shall act as web and mobile based portal for State or Central department or agency or body corporate issued electronic records maintained in a prescribed format. 

Question: Is Digital Locker a mobile based portal?
Answer: the Digital Locker system shall act as web and mobile based portal for State or Central department or agency or body corporate issued electronic records maintained in a prescribed format. 



Title: operation of DIGITAL LOCKER System

Content: 5. Operation of Digital Locker System.–– (1) Any individual who is resident of India shall be able to open and gain access to Digital Locker portal after submitting duly prescribed application form to the authorised Digital Locker service provider. (2) Subject to the sub-rule (1), any individual may obtain the services of the licensed or empanelled DigitalLocker service providers for the purpose of accessing locker, gateways and repository services using web or mobile based Digital Locker Portal.(3) Digital Locker Portal shall provide access to repositories and access gateway for issuers to issue and requesters to access digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records respectively in a uniform way in real-time.(4) Digital Locker Directory shall provide following details, namely:––(a) Registration facility for issuers, requesters, locker providers, repository providers and gateway providers; (b) issuer (name, ID, registration date, contact details), Requester ID ((name, ID, registration date, contact details), Gateway ID (name, ID, registration date, contact details) and repositories (name, ID, registration date, contact details); (c) standards, application forms, and other particulars; (d) electronic workflow to request, approve, and publish new ID for new issuers, gateways and repositories, as the case may be; and(e) any other information as prescribed by the Government. 6. Location of the Facilities.–– The infrastructure associated with all functions of Digital Locker system as well as maintenance of directories containing information about the status of Digital Locker system shall be installed at anylocation within India 

Question: Who can access a Digital Locker System?
Answer: Any individual who is resident of India shall be able to open and gain access to Digital Locker portal after submitting duly prescribed application form to the authorised Digital Locker service provider.

Question: What does Digital Locker Portal do?
Answer: Digital Locker Portal shall provide access to repositories and access gateway for issuers to issue and requesters to access digitally signed or equivalently authenticated electronic records respectively in a uniform way in real-time.

Question: What does a Digital Locker Directory provide?
Answer: Digital Locker Directory shall provide following details, namely:––(a) Registration facility for issuers, requesters, locker providers, repository providers and gateway providers; (b) issuer (name, ID, registration date, contact details), Requester ID ((name, ID, registration date, contact details), Gateway ID (name, ID, registration date, contact details) and repositories (name, ID, registration date, contact details); (c) standards, application forms, and other particulars; (d) electronic workflow to request, approve, and publish new ID for new issuers, gateways and repositories, as the case may be; and(e) any other information as prescribed by the Government

Question: Where are the Digital Locker Facilities located?
Answer: The infrastructure associated with all functions of Digital Locker system as well as maintenance of directories containing information about the status of Digital Locker system shall be installed at anylocation within India



Title: E-mail policy of Government of India

Content: 1.1 The Government uses e-mail as a major mode of communication. Communications include Government of India (GoI) data that travel as part of mail transactions between users located both within the country and outside.1.2 This policy of Government of India lays down the guidelines with respect to use of e-mail services. The Implementing Agency (IA) [2] for the GoI e-mail service shall be National Informatics Centre (NIC), under the Department of Electronics and Information Technology(DeitY), Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. The organisations exempted under Clause 14 will themselves become the Implementing Agency (IA) for the purpose of thispolicy.2. Scope2.1 Only the e-mail services provided by NIC, the Implementing Agency of the Government of India shall be used for official communications by all organizations except those exempted under clause no 14 of this policy. The e-mail services provided by other service providers shall not be used for any official communication.2.2 This policy is applicable to all employees of GoI and employees of those State/UT Governments that use the e-mail services of GoI and also those State/UT Governments that choose to adopt this policy in future. The directives contained in this policy must be followed by all of them with no exceptions. All users of e-mail services can find further information in the supporting policies available on http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines under the caption “E-mail Policy”.

Question: What is the main mode of communication for the Government Of India?
Answer: The Government uses e-mail as a major mode of communication. Communications include Government of India (GoI) data that travel as part of mail transactions between users located both within the country and outside

Question: What does the e-mail policy of Government of India do?
Answer: This policy of Government of India lays down the guidelines with respect to use of e-mail services.

Question: What is IA with respect to the e-mail policy of the Government of India?
Answer: The Implementing Agency (IA) [2] for the GoI e-mail service shall be National Informatics Centre (NIC), under the Department of Electronics and Information Technology(DeitY), Ministry of Communications and Information Technology.

Question: Who is the Implementing Agency for the e-mail policy of Government of India?
Answer: The Implementing Agency (IA) [2] for the GoI e-mail service shall be National Informatics Centre (NIC), under the Department of Electronics and Information Technology(DeitY), Ministry of Communications and Information Technology.

Question: How do government organizations communicate?
Answer:  Only the e-mail services provided by NIC, the Implementing Agency of the Government of India shall be used for official communications by all organizations except those exempted under clause no 14 of this policy.

Question: Can other e-mail services be used for government communications?
Answer: The e-mail services provided by other service providers shall not be used for any official communication.

Question: Who is the e-mail policy of the Government of India applicable to?
Answer: This policy is applicable to all employees of GoI and employees of those State/UT Governments that use the e-mail services of GoI and also those State/UT Governments that choose to adopt this policy in future. The directives contained in this policy must be followed by all of them with no exceptions. All users of e-mail services can find further information in the supporting policies available on http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines under the caption “E-mail Policy”. 

Question: What are the policies of the e-mail policy of India?
Answer: All users of e-mail services can find further information in the supporting policies available on http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines under the caption “E-mail Policy”. 



Title: e-mail policy of india contd

Content: The objective of this policy is to ensure secure access and usage of Government of India e-mail services by its users. Users have the responsibility to use this resource in an efficient, effective, lawful, and ethical manner. Use of the Government of India e-mail service amounts to the user's agreement to be governed by this policy.3.2 All services under e-mail are offered free of cost to all officials under Ministries / Departments /Statutory Bodies / Autonomous bodies (henceforth referred to as “Organization” in the policy)of both Central and State/UT Governments. More information is available under “NIC e-mail Services and Usage Policy” at http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines/ under the caption “E-mail Policy”. 3.3 Any other policies, guidelines or instructions on e-mail previously issued shall be superseded by this policy.4. Roles specified for implementation of the Policy The following roles are specified in each organization using the GoI e-mail service. The official identified for the task shall be responsible for the management of the entire user base configured under that respective domain. 4.1 Competent Authority as identified by each organization 4.2 Designated nodal officer as identified by each organization 4.3 GoI e-mail service Implementing Agency (IA), i.e. National Informatics Centre or the exempt organisation as per Clause 14 of this policy.

Question: What is the objective of the e-mail Policy of Government of India?
Answer: The objective of this policy is to ensure secure access and usage of Government of India e-mail services by its users.

Question: What is the user responsible for while using government e-mail?
Answer: Users have the responsibility to use this resource in an efficient, effective, lawful, and ethical manner. Use of the Government of India e-mail service amounts to the user's agreement to be governed by this policy

Question: How much do the e-mail services cost a user?
Answer: All services under e-mail are offered free of cost to all officials under Ministries / Departments /Statutory Bodies / Autonomous bodies (henceforth referred to as “Organization” in the policy)of both Central and State/UT Governments. More information is available under “NIC e-mail Services and Usage Policy” at http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines/ under the caption “E-mail Policy”.

Question: What happened to the old e-mail policies?
Answer: Any other policies, guidelines or instructions on e-mail previously issued shall be superseded by this policy.

Question: What are the roles specified for the implementation of the e-mail policy of India?
Answer: Roles specified for implementation of the Policy The following roles are specified in each organization using the GoI e-mail service. The official identified for the task shall be responsible for the management of the entire user base configured under that respective domain. 4.1 Competent Authority as identified by each organization 4.2 Designated nodal officer as identified by each organization 4.3 GoI e-mail service Implementing Agency (IA), i.e. National Informatics Centre or the exempt organisation as per Clause 14 of this policy.

Question: Who is the implementation agency of the e-mail policy of government of India?
Answer: National Informatics Centre



Title: Security pertaining to the e-mail Policy of Government of india

Content: 5.1 Security a) Considering the security concerns with regard to a sensitive deployment like e-mail, apart from the service provided by the IA, there would not be any other e-mail service under GoI. b) All organizations, except those exempted under clause 14 of this policy, should migrate their e-mail services to the centralized deployment of the IA for security reasons and uniform policy enforcement. For the purpose of continuity, the e-mail address of the organization migrating their service to the IA deployment shall be retained as part of the migration process. Wherever it is technically feasible, data migration shall also be done. c) Secure access to the GoI email service i) It is recommended for users working in sensitive offices to use VPN[7]/OTP[8] for secure authentication as deemed appropriate by the competent authority. ii) It is recommended that GoI officials on long deputation/stationed abroad and handling sensitive information should use (VPN)/ (OTP) for accessing GoI e-mail services as deemed appropriate by the competent authority. iii) It is recommended that Embassies and missions abroad should use Static IP addresses for accessing the services of the IA as deemed appropriate by the competent authority. iv) More information is available under “Guidelines for E-mail Management and Effective E-mail Usage” at http://www.deity.gov.in/content/policiesguidelines under the caption “E-mail Policy”. 

Question: How is the e-mail network of GOI kept secure?
Answer: 