Title: PRODUCTION LINKED INCENTIVE (PLI) SCHEME TO PROMOTE TELECOM AND NETWORKING PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING IN INDIA

Content: F. No. 13-01/2020-IC.—1. Background The Telecommunication sector has a pivotal role in facilitating the growth of economy. Telecom is key infrastructure and a key enabler of digital connectivity and Digital India. In the above context, it is necessary and desirable to incentivise manufacturing of Telecom Products in India. 2. Objectives The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme will promote Telecom and Networking Products manufacturing in India. Accordingly, a financial incentive is proposed to boost domestic manufacturing and attract investments in the target segments of telecom and networking products in order to encourage “Make in India”. The Scheme is also expected to boost export of telecom and networking products “Made in India”. 3. Target Segments Support under the Scheme will be provided to companies/entities engaged in manufacturing of specified telecom and networking products in India as listed in Annexure-1.

Question: Why is it necessary to to incentivise manufacturing telecom products in India?
Answer: The Telecommunication sector has a pivotal role in facilitating the growth of economy. Telecom is key infrastructure and a key enabler of digital connectivity and Digital India. In the above context, it is necessary and desirable to incentivise manufacturing of Telecom Products in India.

Question: What is PLI?
Answer: Production Linked Incentive

Question: What is the objective of PLI?
Answer: The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme will promote Telecom and Networking Products manufacturing in India. Accordingly, a financial incentive is proposed to boost domestic manufacturing and attract investments in the target segments of telecom and networking products in order to encourage “Make in India”. The Scheme is also expected to boost export of telecom and networking products “Made in India”.

Quesion: How is "Make in India" encouraged?
Answer: a financial incentive is proposed to boost domestic manufacturing and attract investments in the target segments of telecom and networking products in order to encourage “Make in India”.



Title: PLI 2

Content: Eligibility 4.1 Eligibility will be subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment over a period of four years and incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods) over the Base Year. The cumulative investment can be made at one go, subject to annual cumulative threshold as prescribed for four years being met. An applicant is expected to meet all the minimum threshold conditions to be eligible for disbursement of incentive. The Company/entity may invest in single or multiple eligible products to meet minimum incremental investment and sales threshold. The Scheme will also include contract manufacturers as defined in the FDI Policy Circular of 2017. 4.2 There will be a minimum investment threshold of ₹ 10 Crores for MSME and ₹ 100 Crores for others. Land and building cost will not be counted as investment. 4.3 Any beneficiary under this PLI Scheme will not be eligible to take benefit for the same products under any other PLI Scheme of Central Government. However, eligibility under PLI Scheme will not affect eligibility under any other Scheme being implemented by State/UT Governments and vice-versa. 4.4 Total number of beneficiaries will be limited owing to the fixed ceiling of the budgetary outlay. The beneficiaries will be decided through a transparent mechanism, to be finalized by the Competent Authority as per the Scheme Guidelines. Each beneficiary will have to meet the minimum incremental net sales criteria over the Base Year, as per column C of the table given in Annexure-2, to become eligible for the incentive. The amount of incentive given to each beneficiary will also be capped with a ceiling as per column D of the table or as decided by the Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS).

Question: How is a product eligible in the Production Linked Incentive scheme?
Answer: Eligibility will be subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment over a period of four years and incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods) over the Base Year.

Question: What is the investment pattern in the PLI?
Answer: Eligibility will be subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment over a period of four years and incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods) over the Base Year. The cumulative investment can be made at one go, subject to annual cumulative threshold as prescribed for four years being met. 

Question: What is the minimum investment threshold in PLI?
Answer: There will be a minimum investment threshold of ₹ 10 Crores for MSME and ₹ 100 Crores for others. Land and building cost will not be counted as investment. 

Question: Are PLI beneficiaries eligible for other schemes?
Answer: Any beneficiary under this PLI Scheme will not be eligible to take benefit for the same products under any other PLI Scheme of Central Government. However, eligibility under PLI Scheme will not affect eligibility under any other Scheme being implemented by State/UT Governments and vice-versa. 

Question: How is the total number of beneficiaries determined?
Answer: Total number of beneficiaries will be limited owing to the fixed ceiling of the budgetary outlay. The beneficiaries will be decided through a transparent mechanism, to be finalized by the Competent Authority as per the Scheme Guidelines.



Title: PLI 3

Content:5. Base Year Financial Year 2019-20 shall be treated as the Base Year for computation of cumulative incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods). Baseline information pertaining to production of beneficiary manufacturers will be captured to deduce and verify the cumulative incremental production over the base year. 6. Tenure of the Scheme The scheme will be effective from 1st April, 2021. The investment will be permitted to be made in four years, subject to qualifying incremental annual thresholds, the support under the Scheme shall be provided for a period of five (5) years. 7. Review and Monitoring Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) chaired by Cabinet Secretary will monitor the PLI Scheme, undertake periodic review of the outgo under the Scheme, and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. The Department of Telecommunications will finalize and notify the Scheme Guidelines. EGoS, within, the contours of Cabinet approval, can carry out any amendments in the Scheme Guidelines to ensure successful implementation on ground. Selection of the applicants to the Scheme will be done by the Department of Telecommunications. 8. Incentive Outlay The PLI Scheme will be implemented within the overall financial limits of ₹ 12,195 Crores only (Rupees Twelve Thousand One Hundred and Ninety-Five Crore only) for implementation of the Scheme over a period of 5 years. 9. Applicable Incentives The applicable incentive percentage for MSMEs will be 7% for Year 1 & Year 2, 6% for Year 3, 5% for Year 4 and 4% for year 5 on eligible sales over the base year. For category other than MSME, the applicable incentive percentage will be 6% for Year 1 & 2, 5% for Year 3 & 4 and 4% for year 5 on eligible sales over the base year. The incentive will be given subject to annual investment targets having been met. 10. Incentive per Company The incentive per company will be applicable on sales of manufactured finished goods net of taxes, discounts, commissions etc. (as distinct from traded goods) subject to ceilings as indicated in the table at para 4.4 above (or as decided by the EGoS from time to time) and the company meeting the cumulative investment criteria as well. Total possible incentive for each applicant will be capped based on total investment committed at the time of application. This will be informed to the applicant at approval stage.

Question: What is the base year for PLI?
Answer: Financial Year 2019-20 shall be treated as the Base Year for computation of cumulative incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods). Baseline information pertaining to production of beneficiary manufacturers will be captured to deduce and verify the cumulative incremental production over the base year.

Question: What is the tenure of the PLI scheme?
Answer: Tenure of the Scheme The scheme will be effective from 1st April, 2021. The investment will be permitted to be made in four years, subject to qualifying incremental annual thresholds, the support under the Scheme shall be provided for a period of five (5) years.

Question: From when is the PLI scheme effective?
Answer: 1st April, 2021.

Question: How long is the PLI scheme effective?
Answer: the Scheme shall be provided for a period of five (5) years.

Question: What does EGoS stand for?
Answer: Empowered Group of Secretaries

Question: Who monitors the PLI scheme?
Answer: Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) chaired by Cabinet Secretary will monitor the PLI Scheme

Question: What is the duty of the EGoS?
Answer: Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) chaired by Cabinet Secretary will monitor the PLI Scheme, undertake periodic review of the outgo under the Scheme, and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. 

Question: Who carries out the amendments of PLI scheme?
Answer: EGoS, within, the contours of Cabinet approval, can carry out any amendments in the Scheme Guidelines to ensure successful implementation on ground. 

Question: What is the financial support given to the PLI scheme?
Answer: The PLI Scheme will be implemented within the overall financial limits of ₹ 12,195 Crores only (Rupees Twelve Thousand One Hundred and Ninety-Five Crore only) for implementation of the Scheme over a period of 5 years. 

Question: What are the incentives for MSME?
Answer: The applicable incentive percentage for MSMEs will be 7% for Year 1 & Year 2, 6% for Year 3, 5% for Year 4 and 4% for year 5 on eligible sales over the base year. For category other than MSME, the applicable incentive percentage will be 6% for Year 1 & 2, 5% for Year 3 & 4 and 4% for year 5 on eligible sales over the base year.

Question: What is the incentive per company in the PLI scheme?
Answer: The incentive per company will be applicable on sales of manufactured finished goods net of taxes, discounts, commissions etc. (as distinct from traded goods) subject to ceilings as indicated in the table at para 4.4 above (or as decided by the EGoS from time to time) and the company meeting the cumulative investment criteria as well. Total possible incentive for each applicant will be capped based on total investment committed at the time of application. This will be informed to the applicant at approval stage. 



Title: National Digital Comms Policy 2018 

Content: 1. Digital infrastructure and services are increasingly emerging as key enablers and critical determinants of a country’s growth and well-being. With significant capabilities in both telecommunications and software, India, more than most countries, stands poised to benefit from harnessing new digital technologies and platforms to unlock productivity, as well as to reach unserved and underserved markets; thus catalysing economic growth and development, generating new- age jobs and livelihoods, and ensuring access to next generation services for its citizens. 2. The task before India’s policy makers is to ensure that the advantages of the new technologies are accessible to all equitably and affordably; while securing them against existing and emerging threats. India needs to particularly ensure that its communications infrastructure supports the entire population, whose demographic profiles vary widely across various indices such as literacy, economic conditions and urbanisation. It is important for India to remain sensitive to these factors and promote policies that increase opportunities for their social and economic development. Accordingly, this policy aims for Universal Coverage rather than revenue maximisation. 3. Digital India is already unfolding. India’s digital profile and footprint is one of the fastest growing in the world. With over a billion mobile phones and digital identities and half a billion internet users, India’s mobile data consumption is already the highest in the world. Over 200 million Indians regularly use social media and in the last year alone, over 200 million Indians took to mobile banking and digital payments. At the current pace of digitisation and digitalisation, it is estimated that India’s digital economy has the potential to reach one trillion USD by 2025. The rapid and unprecedented proliferation of the mobile phone, the internet, social media platforms, and the rapid expansion of digital payments, data consumption and generation across India indicate that the data economy and digital technologies and services are no longer the prerogative of the privileged few; but that they have indeed evolved into widespread instruments of access and empowerment for more than a billion Indians.

Question: What is the importance of digital infrastructure?
Answer: Digital infrastructure and services are increasingly emerging as key enablers and critical determinants of a country’s growth and well-being.

Question: Where does india stand on the use of digital infrastructure?
Answer: With significant capabilities in both telecommunications and software, India, more than most countries, stands poised to benefit from harnessing new digital technologies and platforms to unlock productivity, as well as to reach unserved and underserved markets; thus catalysing economic growth and development, generating new- age jobs and livelihoods, and ensuring access to next generation services for its citizens.

Question: What are the advantages of digital infrastructure?
Answer: unlock productivity, as well as to reach unserved and underserved markets; thus catalysing economic growth and development, generating new- age jobs and livelihoods, and ensuring access to next generation services for its citizens.

Question: Who is responsible to make digital infrastructure accessible to the people?
Answer: The task before India’s policy makers is to ensure that the advantages of the new technologies are accessible to all equitably and affordably; while securing them against existing and emerging threats.

Question: What is the task of the policy makers of India?
Answer: The task before India’s policy makers is to ensure that the advantages of the new technologies are accessible to all equitably and affordably; while securing them against existing and emerging threats. India needs to particularly ensure that its communications infrastructure supports the entire population, whose demographic profiles vary widely across various indices such as literacy, economic conditions and urbanisation. It is important for India to remain sensitive to these factors and promote policies that increase opportunities for their social and economic development. Accordingly, this policy aims for Universal Coverage rather than revenue maximisation.

Question: What does digitization have to do with economic growth of India?
Answer: India’s digital profile and footprint is one of the fastest growing in the world. With over a billion mobile phones and digital identities and half a billion internet users, India’s mobile data consumption is already the highest in the world. Over 200 million Indians regularly use social media and in the last year alone, over 200 million Indians took to mobile banking and digital payments. At the current pace of digitisation and digitalisation, it is estimated that India’s digital economy has the potential to reach one trillion USD by 2025. 

Question: What is the reach of digitalization in India?
Answer: The rapid and unprecedented proliferation of the mobile phone, the internet, social media platforms, and the rapid expansion of digital payments, data consumption and generation across India indicate that the data economy and digital technologies and services are no longer the prerogative of the privileged few; but that they have indeed evolved into widespread instruments of access and empowerment for more than a billion Indians.

Question: When is India set to be a trillion dollar economy?
Answer: 2025.



Title: National Digital Comms Policy 2018 

Content: It has been broadly estimated that a 10% increase in broadband penetration in a country could potentially lead to an over 1% increase in GDP. However, studies in India estimate that the impact could be significantly higher for the country, given the increased productivity and efficiency gains that are likely to accrue to the economy. 5. Currently, India has approximately 1.5 million kilometres of OFC, and less than one-fourth of the towers are fibre-connected. In order to expand mobile and broadband connectivity across the country, it is necessary to explore and utilise the opportunities presented by next-generation-networks like 5G and other pioneering network access technologies including satellite communications. It would be critical to focus on Digital Communications infrastructure development initiatives related to fibre deployment and Right of Way clearances, for both overground and underground infrastructure, that will form the bedrock of next generation technologies. 6. While India has embarked on one of the world’s largest rural optic fibre roll-outs in the world, aiming to connect 600,000 of its villages to broadband through its flagship initiative called ‘BharatNet’; the convergence of a cluster of revolutionary technologies including 5G, the cloud, IOT and data analytics, along with a growing start-up community, promise to accelerate and deepen its digital engagement, opening up a new horizon of opportunities. As the world prepares for what is increasingly being called as the fourth industrial revolution, India, and indeed every single sector of its economy, need to be readied to embrace this opportunity.

Question: How does internet effect the GDP of a country?
Answer: It has been broadly estimated that a 10% increase in broadband penetration in a country could potentially lead to an over 1% increase in GDP.

Question: How much does India benifit from mass digitisation?
Answer: It has been broadly estimated that a 10% increase in broadband penetration in a country could potentially lead to an over 1% increase in GDP. However, studies in India estimate that the impact could be significantly higher for the country, given the increased productivity and efficiency gains that are likely to accrue to the economy.

Question: How can connectivity be imporoved in India?
Answer: In order to expand mobile and broadband connectivity across the country, it is necessary to explore and utilise the opportunities presented by next-generation-networks like 5G and other pioneering network access technologies including satellite communications.

Question: How is the next generation of networks being created?
Answer: It would be critical to focus on Digital Communications infrastructure development initiatives related to fibre deployment and Right of Way clearances, for both overground and underground infrastructure, that will form the bedrock of next generation technologies.

Question: What is BharatNet?
Answer: India has embarked on one of the world’s largest rural optic fibre roll-outs in the world, aiming to connect 600,000 of its villages to broadband through its flagship initiative called ‘BharatNet’;

Question: How is India improving connectivity?
Answer: India has embarked on one of the world’s largest rural optic fibre roll-outs in the world, aiming to connect 600,000 of its villages to broadband through its flagship initiative called ‘BharatNet’;



Title: National Digital Comms Policy 2018 

Content: A robust, competitive landscape, which ensures availability of new communications technologies, services and applications, is central to the growth of GDP, productivity and creation of new jobs in the economy. For consumers, competition leads to innovation, access to new technologies, improved quality, affordable prices and wider choice. Indian consumers need and deserve the widest range of services at competitive rates. The Policy seeks to promote and protect fair competition across the communications and digital economy sector. 8. Improvement in regulation and ongoing structural reforms are the pillars of a sound policy initiative. Regulatory reform is not a one-off effort, but a dynamic, long-term and multi-disciplinary process. The Policy recognises the importance of continued improvement in the regulatory framework for attracting investments and ensuring fair competition, to serve the needs of Indian citizens. Given the sector’s capital-intensive nature, the Policy aims to attract long-term, high quality and sustainable investments. To serve this objective, the Policy further aims to pursue regulatory reforms to ensure that the regulatory structures and processes remain relevant, transparent, accountable and forward-looking. Additionally, the Policy aims to remove regulatory barriers and reduce the regulatory burden that hampers investments, innovation and consumer interest. The Policy also identifies steps to strengthen the sector’s institutional mechanism and legislative framework, to ensure that India’s economy and citizens can derive the full potential of its digital communications sector.

Question: How does competition help with the growth of the economy?
Answer: A robust, competitive landscape, which ensures availability of new communications technologies, services and applications, is central to the growth of GDP, productivity and creation of new jobs in the economy.

Question: What helps the growth of the economy?
Answer: A robust, competitive landscape, which ensures availability of new communications technologies, services and applications, is central to the growth of GDP, productivity and creation of new jobs in the economy.

Question: How does a competitive economy benifit consumers?
Answer: For consumers, competition leads to innovation, access to new technologies, improved quality, affordable prices and wider choice. Indian consumers need and deserve the widest range of services at competitive rates. The Policy seeks to promote and protect fair competition across the communications and digital economy sector.

Question: What is the base of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: Improvement in regulation and ongoing structural reforms are the pillars of a sound policy initiative.

Quesion: What is the objective of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: The Policy recognises the importance of continued improvement in the regulatory framework for attracting investments and ensuring fair competition, to serve the needs of Indian citizens. Given the sector’s capital-intensive nature, the Policy aims to attract long-term, high quality and sustainable investments.

Question: How does the National Digital Communications Policy achieve its objectives?
Answer: To serve this objective, the Policy further aims to pursue regulatory reforms to ensure that the regulatory structures and processes remain relevant, transparent, accountable and forward-looking. Additionally, the Policy aims to remove regulatory barriers and reduce the regulatory burden that hampers investments, innovation and consumer interest. The Policy also identifies steps to strengthen the sector’s institutional mechanism and legislative framework, to ensure that India’s economy and citizens can derive the full potential of its digital communications sector.



Title: National Digital Comms Policy 2018 

Content: If India’s economic, social and political interests in the emerging data economy are to be effectively secured, its ‘digital sovereignty’ encompassing the data privacy, choice and security of its citizens must be a prime consideration while participating in the global digital economy. 10. The objective of a national policy on digital communications is to prepare the country and its citizens for the future. Achieving these goals would require that the key stakeholders – namely the Centre, the States, local governments and agencies, Telecom Service Providers, Internet Service Providers, Infrastructure Providers, handset and equipment manufacturers, the academic community, the innovators and start-ups come together to forge a coalition to deliver this national policy and its missions. 11. Keeping in view the changes and advancements in the digital communications ecosystem, the National Telecom Policy will hereinafter be referred to as ‘National Digital Communications Policy. To ensure effective implementation and monitoring of the Policy, it is proposed to re-designate the Telecom Commission as the Digital Communications Commission, to ensure that the high aspirations are achieved within stipulated time.

Question: What is the importance of digital sovereignty?
Answer: If India’s economic, social and political interests in the emerging data economy are to be effectively secured, its ‘digital sovereignty’ encompassing the data privacy, choice and security of its citizens must be a prime consideration while participating in the global digital economy.

Question: How is the objective of National Digital Communications Policy implemented?
Answer: The objective of a national policy on digital communications is to prepare the country and its citizens for the future. Achieving these goals would require that the key stakeholders – namely the Centre, the States, local governments and agencies, Telecom Service Providers, Internet Service Providers, Infrastructure Providers, handset and equipment manufacturers, the academic community, the innovators and start-ups come together to forge a coalition to deliver this national policy and its missions. 

Question: Why is the National Digital Communications Policy important?
Answer: to prepare the country and its citizens for the future.

Question: Who are the key stakeholders for the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: he Centre, the States, local governments and agencies, Telecom Service Providers, Internet Service Providers, Infrastructure Providers, handset and equipment manufacturers, the academic community, the innovators and start-ups

Question: Who will be the implementing organization of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: the key stakeholders – namely the Centre, the States, local governments and agencies, Telecom Service Providers, Internet Service Providers, Infrastructure Providers, handset and equipment manufacturers, the academic community, the innovators and start-ups come together to forge a coalition to deliver this national policy and its missions.

Question: What was the old name for National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: National Telecom Policy

Question: What is the new name for National Telecom Policy?
Answer: National Digital Communications Policy.

Question: Why was the National Telecom Policy renamed?
Answer: Keeping in view the changes and advancements in the digital communications ecosystem, the National Telecom Policy will hereinafter be referred to as ‘National Digital Communications Policy. To ensure effective implementation and monitoring of the Policy, it is proposed to re-designate the Telecom Commission as the Digital Communications Commission, to ensure that the high aspirations are achieved within stipulated time.



Title: National Digital Comms Policy 2018

Content: The National Digital Communications Policy, 2018 seeks to unlock the transformative power of digital communications networks - to achieve the goal of digital empowerment and improved well-being of the people of India; and towards this end, attempts to outline a set of goals, initiatives, strategies and intended policy outcomes. The National Communications Policy aims to accomplish the following Strategic Objectives by 2022: 1. Provisioning of Broadband for All 2. Creating 4 Million additional jobs in the Digital Communications sector 3. Enhancing the contribution of the Digital Communications sector to 8% of India’s GDP from ~ 6% in 2017 4. Propelling India to the Top 50 Nations in the ICT Development Index of ITU from 134 in 2017 5. Enhancing India’s contribution to Global Value Chains 6. Ensuring Digital Sovereignty Vision To fulfil the information and communication needs of citizens and enterprises through the establishment of a ubiquitous, resilient, secure, accessible and affordable Digital Communications Infrastructure and Services; and in the process, support India’s transition to a digitally empowered economy and society. Missions In pursuit of accomplishing these objectives by year 2022, the National Digital Communications Policy, 2018 envisages three Missions: 1. Connect India: Creating Robust Digital Communications Infrastructure To promote Broadband for All as a tool for socio-economic development, while ensuring service quality and environmental sustainability. 2. Propel India: Enabling Next Generation Technologies and Services through Investments, Innovation and IPR generation To harness the power of emerging digital technologies, including 5G, AI, IoT, Cloud and Big Data to enable provision of future ready products and services; and to catalyse the fourth industrial revolution (Industry 4.0) by promoting Investments, Innovation and IPR. 3. Secure India: Ensuring Sovereignty, Safety and Security of Digital Communications To secure the interests of citizens and safeguard the digital sovereignty of India with a focus on ensuring individual autonomy and choice, data ownership, privacy and security; while recognizing data as a crucial economic resource.

Question: What is the goal of National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: The National Digital Communications Policy, 2018 seeks to unlock the transformative power of digital communications networks - to achieve the goal of digital empowerment and improved well-being of the people of India; and towards this end, attempts to outline a set of goals, initiatives, strategies and intended policy outcomes

Question: What are the Strategic Objectives of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: 1. Provisioning of Broadband for All 2. Creating 4 Million additional jobs in the Digital Communications sector 3. Enhancing the contribution of the Digital Communications sector to 8% of India’s GDP from ~ 6% in 2017 4. Propelling India to the Top 50 Nations in the ICT Development Index of ITU from 134 in 2017 5. Enhancing India’s contribution to Global Value Chains 6. Ensuring Digital Sovereignty 

Question: What is the vision of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: To fulfil the information and communication needs of citizens and enterprises through the establishment of a ubiquitous, resilient, secure, accessible and affordable Digital Communications Infrastructure and Services; and in the process, support India’s transition to a digitally empowered economy and society.

Question: What are the three main missions of National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: n pursuit of accomplishing these objectives by year 2022, the National Digital Communications Policy, 2018 envisages three Missions: 1. Connect India: Creating Robust Digital Communications Infrastructure To promote Broadband for All as a tool for socio-economic development, while ensuring service quality and environmental sustainability. 2. Propel India: Enabling Next Generation Technologies and Services through Investments, Innovation and IPR generation To harness the power of emerging digital technologies, including 5G, AI, IoT, Cloud and Big Data to enable provision of future ready products and services; and to catalyse the fourth industrial revolution (Industry 4.0) by promoting Investments, Innovation and IPR. 3. Secure India: Ensuring Sovereignty, Safety and Security of Digital Communications To secure the interests of citizens and safeguard the digital sovereignty of India with a focus on ensuring individual autonomy and choice, data ownership, privacy and security; while recognizing data as a crucial economic resource.

Question: What does Connect India mean?
Answer: Creating Robust Digital Communications Infrastructure To promote Broadband for All as a tool for socio-economic development, while ensuring service quality and environmental sustainability.

Question: What is propel india?
Answer: Enabling Next Generation Technologies and Services through Investments, Innovation and IPR generation To harness the power of emerging digital technologies, including 5G, AI, IoT, Cloud and Big Data to enable provision of future ready products and services; and to catalyse the fourth industrial revolution (Industry 4.0) by promoting Investments, Innovation and IPR.

Question: What is the secure India mission of the National Digital Communications Policy?
Answer: Ensuring Sovereignty, Safety and Security of Digital Communications To secure the interests of citizens and safeguard the digital sovereignty of India with a focus on ensuring individual autonomy and choice, data ownership, privacy and security; while recognizing data as a crucial economic resource.



Title: Prohibition of import of mobile phones with duplicate equipment

Content: 1.0 BACKGROUND  1.1 A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) (Version 1.0) was issued by Department of Telecommunications for "Implementation of Central Government notification prohibiting import of mobile phones with duplicate, fake and non-genuine International Mobile Equipment Identity" vide letter dated 29th May, 2015.  1.2 The SOP was prepared and issued for implementation of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) notification No. 107/(RE-2013)/2009 2014 dated 16.01.2015 for prohibiting import of mobile handsets without International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) No., with all zeroes IMEI, duplicate IMEI or fake IMEI on directions from the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi to DGFT to bring out a mechanism as to how and by what mechanism the notification dated 16.01.2015 will be implemented. The said notification inter-alia states as below:  (i) Import of 'GSM mobile handsets' (classified under ITC (HS) Code 8517) without International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) No., with all zeroes IMEI, duplicate IMEI or fake IMEI is 'Prohibited.  (ii) Import of 'CDMA mobile handsets' (classified under ITC (HS) Code  8517) without Electronic Serial Number (ESN)/Mobile  Equipment Identifier (MEID), with all zeroes as ESN/MEID,  duplicate ESN/MEID or fake ESN/MEID is 'Prohibited.  1.3 The notification dated 16.01.2015 was issued by DGFT in response to the order dated 27.10.2014 of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi for necessary decision and notification on fake/Duplicate IMEI in writ petition No. 5772/2014 filed by M/s Micromax Informatics Limited.  1.4 The above mentioned SOP was implemented by the Government of India through IMEI Cloning and Duplication Restriction system developed, operated and maintained by Mobile Standard Alliance of  India (MSAI), representing GSMA

Question: What is SOP?
Answer: Standard Operating Procedure

Question: When was the SOP for prohibiting mobile phones with fake equipment passed?
Answer: A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) (Version 1.0) was issued by Department of Telecommunications for "Implementation of Central Government notification prohibiting import of mobile phones with duplicate, fake and non-genuine International Mobile Equipment Identity" vide letter dated 29th May, 2015.

Question: What was the agenda of the SOP dated 29th May, 2015?
Answer: A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) (Version 1.0) was issued by Department of Telecommunications for "Implementation of Central Government notification prohibiting import of mobile phones with duplicate, fake and non-genuine International Mobile Equipment Identity" vide letter dated 29th May, 2015.

Question: What is IMEI number?
Answer: International Mobile Equipment Identity 

Question: What  is DGTF?
Answer: Directorate General of Foreign Trade

Question: How is this SOP implemented?
Answer: OP was implemented by the Government of India through IMEI Cloning and Duplication Restriction system developed, operated and maintained by Mobile Standard Alliance of  India (MSAI), representing GSMA



Title: Prohibition of import of mobile phones with duplicate equipment

Content: 2.1 IMEI is a 15-digit unique identification number for each mobile device  used in Global System for Mobile (GSM) network. 2.2 The format of IMEI consist of 8-digit Type Allocation Code (TAC), 6-digit  Serial Number (SNR) and last digit is checksum.  2.3 The TAC identifies the type of the Mobile Equipment (ME). It consists  of two parts. The first two digits (NN) defines the Reporting Body (RB)  allocating the TAC and the next six digits (XXXXXX) defines the ME Model.  TAC numbers (first 8 digits of IMEI) are allocated to the Mobile Equipment manufacturers or Brand owners (Type allocation Holder) by GSMA, which is an international body representing the interests of worldwide telecom operators.  2.5 GSMA performs its role through authorized representatives (Reporting Bodies) and keeps records of the TACS that are allocated to mobile device manufactures/Brand owners including information on some of the technical capabilities of the mobile device in its Data  Base. 2,6 Following the TAC numbers, next 6-digits (serial number) are assigned  by the manufacturer to each mobile device in a manner that each  and every mobile device can be uniquely identified.  MSAI was a GSMA reporting body in India till 28.04.2019. MSAI is no longer a GSMA Reporting Body w.e.f. 29.04.2019 and TÜV SÜD BABT (previously known as British Approvals Board for Telecommunications (BABT) UK) has assumed the role of GSMA Reporting Body for India for TAC allocation to Indian brand owners  and OEMs. 2.8  The Government has decided to replace the MSAI operated system and a new system i.e. Indian Counterfeited Device Restriction (ICDR) system has been developed by Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT). The new system has been operationalized w.e.f 28.01.2020.   2.9 Hence, the need to issue modified SOP has arisen.

Question: What does GSM stand for?
Answer: Global System for Mobile 

Question: What  does TAC stand for?
Answer: Type Allocation Code

Question: What is the Format of IMEI number?
Answer: The format of IMEI consist of 8-digit Type Allocation Code (TAC), 6-digit  Serial Number (SNR) and last digit is checksum.

Question: What does TAC number do?
Answer: The TAC identifies the type of the Mobile Equipment (ME). It consists  of two parts. The first two digits (NN) defines the Reporting Body (RB)  allocating the TAC and the next six digits (XXXXXX) defines the ME Model.  TAC numbers (first 8 digits of IMEI) are allocated to the Mobile Equipment manufacturers or Brand owners (Type allocation Holder) by GSMA, which is an international body representing the interests of worldwide telecom operators.

Question: What is GSMA?
Answer: an international body representing the interests of worldwide telecom operators.

Question: How does a GSMA operate?
Answer: GSMA performs its role through authorized representatives (Reporting Bodies) and keeps records of the TACS that are allocated to mobile device manufactures/Brand owners including information on some of the technical capabilities of the mobile device in its Data  Base.

Question: Who was India's previous GSMA reporting body?
Answer: MSAI

Question: Who is current GSMA reporting body?
Answer: TÜV SÜD BABT (previously known as British Approvals Board for Telecommunications (BABT) UK) has assumed the role of GSMA Reporting Body for India for TAC allocation to Indian brand owners  and OEMs.

Question: Who assigns serial number for mobiles?
Answer: Following the TAC numbers, next 6-digits (serial number) are assigned  by the manufacturer to each mobile device in a manner that each  and every mobile device can be uniquely identified.

Question: What is the full form of ICDR?
Answer: Indian Counterfeited Device Restriction

Question: What happened to MSAI operated systems?
Answer: The Government has decided to replace the MSAI operated system and a new system i.e. Indian Counterfeited Device Restriction (ICDR) system has been developed by Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT). The new system has been operationalized w.e.f 28.01.2020.